[PAGE 54]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  438
 2025  No. 7
company during any previous accounting period.
(2) The assessable profit shall be determined separately for each of the
two classes of chargeable tax identified in section 72 (a) and (b) of this Act.
(3) The loss referred to in subsection (1) shall be deducted to the extent
possible from the amount of the adjusted profits of the accounting period
immediately succeeding the accounting period in which the loss was incurred,
and in subsequent accounting periods, until the loss is fully recouped.
(4) Within five months after the end of any accounting period of a com-
pany, or within such further time as the Service may permit in writing, the
company may elect in writing that a deduction or any part to be made under
this section shall be deferred to and be made in the succeeding accounting
period, and may so elect in any succeeding accounting period.
71.—(1) The chargeable profits of a company for any accounting period
shall be the amount of the assessable profits of that period after the deduction
of any amount to be allowed in accordance with the provisions of this section
as follows —
(a) the aggregate amount of capital allowances due to the company un-
der the provisions of Part II of the First Schedule to this Act for the accounting
period ;
(b) the aggregate amount of all production allowances due to the com-
pany under the provisions of the Sixth Schedule to this Act for the accounting
period ; and
(c) in the case of acquisition costs of petroleum rights, the value of the
rights and the value of the assets acquired shall be reported separately to the
Service, provided that the value of the rights shall be eligible for annual allow-
ance of 20% per annum until it is fully written off and the value of the assets
shall be depreciated based on the applicable depreciation rates for the respec-
tive assets under Part II of the First Schedule to this Act.
(2) In determining the chargeable profit, the total cost shall not exceed
the cost-price ratio as determined in the Sixth Schedule to this Act.
(3) The chargeable profits and allowances shall be determined sepa-
rately for the two classes of assessable profits under section 72 (a) and (b) of
this Act.
(4) Where Value Added Tax is due under this Act but not charged on an
asset, or in the case of an imported item, the applicable import duty or levy was
not paid, the relevant expenditure shall not be eligible as a qualifying capital
expenditure under the provisions of Part II of the First Schedule to this Act.
72. The chargeable hydrocarbon tax for any accounting period of a
company shall be a percentage of the aggregated chargeable profit for that
period and it shall be —
Chargeable
profits and
allowances
First
Schedule
First
Schedule
Sixth
Schedule
Sixth
Schedule
First
Schedule
Chargeable
hydrocarbon
tax
