[PAGE 84]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  468
 2025  No. 7
vided in the agreement for the indirect benefit of residents of any other coun-
try or territory that is not part of the agreement.
(7) For the purposes of the agreement referred to in subsection (1) of
this section, a non-resident may benefit under the agreement where the person
is a resident of the relevant treaty partner and the beneficial owner of the
income for which the benefit is being claimed.
(8) Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow a relief in respect
of an additional tax paid for the relevant tax year under this Act or the domestic
legislation of a treaty partner in conformity with the global minimum tax rules
as it relates to a permanent establishment situated in the treaty partner.
121.—(1) Relief from double taxation under an agreement referred to in
section 120 of this Act shall be granted in accordance with the provisions of
this section and relevant provisions of Nigeria Tax Administration Act.
(2) The foreign tax paid to a treaty partner in accordance with the agree-
ment, and in respect of income or profits chargeable to income tax in Nigeria
may be allowed as a credit against tax payable under this Act.
(3) The Nigerian tax payable in respect of the income or profit which has
been charged to tax by a treaty partner shall be reduced by the amount of the
credit admissible under the terms of the agreement, provided that credit shall
not be allowed to a person who was not a resident of Nigeria during the rel-
evant year of assessment.
(4) Without prejudice to the provisions of subsection (3) of this section,
the credit to be allowed in subsection (2) of this section shall be the lower of
the —
(a) Nigerian tax attributable to the foreign income or profits ; and
(b) the amount of tax paid to the treaty partner.
(5) The Nigerian tax under subsection (4)(a) of this section attributable
to the foreign income or profits shall be the proportion of the foreign income to
total income, multiplied by the Nigerian tax.
(6) In computing the amount of chargeable income or assessable profits,
the following shall apply —
(a) deduction shall not be allowed in respect of a foreign tax, whether in
respect of the same or any other profits ; and
(b) where profits or income chargeable depends on the amount received
in Nigeria, the amount shall be increased by the appropriate amount of the
foreign tax in respect of the profits.
(7) Any claim for credit shall be made not later than two years after the
end of the year of assessment, and in the event of any dispute as to the amount
Method of
calculating
relief to be
allowed for
double
taxation
