[PAGE 51]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  435
(4) This Part shall not apply to a frontier acreage until it is reclassified
under section 68 (3) of the Petroleum Industry Act.
(5) For the purposes of determining royalties, condensates shall be treated
as crude oil and natural gas liquids as natural gas.
(6) Upstream petroleum operations shall in addition to hydrocarbon tax,
be subject to Chapter Two of this Act.
66. Subject to the provisions of section 65(2) of this Act, there is levied
upon the profits of any company engaged in upstream petroleum operations in
relation to crude oil, a tax to be known as hydrocarbon tax, which shall be
charged and assessed upon its profits related to the operations for each
accounting period and payable in accordance with this Part.
67.—(1) Subject to this Part and the relevant provisions of the  Petroleum
Industry Act, in relation to any accounting period, the crude oil revenue of a
company for that period shall be the value of any chargeable oil adjusted to the
measurement points, based on the —
(a) proceeds of all chargeable oil sold by the company; and
(b) value of all chargeable oil disposed by the company.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) of this section, the value of any
chargeable oil disposed, shall be regarded as the aggregate of the value of that
crude oil determined for royalties for all fields in accordance with this Act,
relevant provisions of the Petroleum Industry Act or any other applicable law.
(3) Subject to section 71(2) of this Act, the adjusted profits of an accounting
period shall be the profits of that period after the deductions and additions
under section 68 of this Act.
(4) The assessable profit of an accounting period shall be the adjusted
profit of that period after any deduction allowed by section 70 of this Act.
(5) The chargeable profits of an accounting period shall be the assessable
profits of that period after the deduction allowed by section 71 of this Act.
68.—(1) In computing the adjusted profit of a company engaged in
upstream petroleum operations related to crude oil for any accounting period,
there shall be deducted expenses wholly and exclusively incurred during that
period for the following —
(a) rents incurred by the company for the period under a petroleum  mining
lease or petroleum prospecting licence;
(b) all royalties incurred by the company during that period in respect of
crude oil and associated gas and where payments to the Federation Account
from a petroleum mining lease is related to production sharing, profit sharing,
risk service contracts or other contractual features under a model contract
Charge of
hydrocarbon
tax
Ascertain-
ment of
crude oil
revenue,
adjusted
profit,
assessable
profits
Act No. 6,
2021
Allowable
deductions
Act No. 6,
2021
