[PAGE 43]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  427
of any description, which are tangible movable properties in the same manner
as they apply in relation to a gain accruing on a disposal of an asset, or two or
more assets forming part of a set of articles.
(5) This section shall not apply to a disposal of currency of any  description.
53.—(1) A motor vehicle used solely for private or non-profit purposes
shall not be an asset for the purposes of this Part.
(2) The exemption under this section shall be limited to not more than
two motor vehicles by an individual in any year of assessment.
54.—(1) Where a person disposes by way of a gift, an asset acquired by
him by way of a gift or any other form of gift, not being an acquisition on a
devolution on death, the gains accruing from the disposal shall not be chargeable
gains.
(2)  For the purpose of this section and section 36 (2) of this Act, an asset
is acquired or disposed of by way of gift where no consideration is paid or
received for the acquisition or disposal.
55.—(1) Any property held in trust for —
(a) a religious or charitable institution of a public character ;
(b) any statutory or registered friendly society ;
(c) any co-operative society registered under the co-operative societies
law of any State ; or
(d) any trade union registered under the Trade Unions Act,
shall not be subject to the provisions of Chapter Two of this Act, provided
that the gain is not derived from the disposal of an asset acquired in connection
with any trade or business carried on by the institution, society or trade
union, and the gain is applied solely for the purpose of the institution, society
or trade union.
(2) Where such property ceases to be subject of such trust —
(a) the trustees shall be treated as if they had disposed of, and immediately
re-acquired the property for a consideration equal to its market value, any
gain on the disposal shall be treated as not accruing to the institution or
society ; and
(b) any gain accruing directly or indirectly on that disposal shall be treated
as having accrued to the trustees and shall be chargeable gains for the
purposes of Chapter Two of this Act.
PART IX – RATES OF TAX
56. Tax shall be levied, for each year of assessment in respect of total
profits of every company, in the case of —
Motor
vehicles
Gifts
Assets held
in trust for
charities
Rates of tax
for compa-
nies
Cap. T 14,
LFN 2004
