[PAGE 137]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  521
expenditure —
(a) expenditure allowed for deduction under section 20 of this Act ; and
(b) excess amount incurred on assets acquired in foreign currency and
paid for with foreign currency obtained from the unofficial foreign exchange
market at a rate above the prevailing official market rate on the date of the
acquisition.
Application to leases
15.—(1) Where in a basis period, the owner of an asset leases the asset
to another person under an operating lease, the provisions of this part shall
apply, as though such expenditure were incurred for the purpose of a trade or
business carried on by the owner or lessor.
(2) Where an asset is acquired for use by a hirer or lessee under a hire
purchase or finance lease contract for the purpose of a trade or business
carried on by such hirer or lessee, the hirer or lessee shall be deemed to be the
owner of the asset and the provisions of this part shall apply to the hirer or
lessee, to the exclusion of the hiree or lessor under the contract.
(3) For the purposes of this paragraph in relation to the trade or business,
the basis period for any year of assessment shall be taken to be the year
immediately preceding that year of assessment.
Asset used or expenditure incurred partly for the
purposes of a trade or business
16.—(1) Where the owner of an asset partly uses the asset for a trade
or business, the allowance computed in accordance with the provisions of this
part, shall, as may be reasonable, be apportioned to the trade or business.
(2) Where the relevant tax authority is of the opinion that the basis of
apportionment is not just and reasonable, having regard to all the circumstances
and to the provisions of this part of this Schedule, the relevant tax authority
shall make necessary adjustments as may be deemed fit.
Disposal without change of ownership
17. Where an asset in respect of which qualifying expenditure has been
incurred is disposed in such circumstances that the owner retains ownership,
for the purposes of determining the amount of capital allowance, the owner
shall be deemed to have bought the asset immediately after the disposal for a
price equal to the residue of the qualifying expenditure at the date of the  disposal.
Application of this Schedule to professions and vocations
18. In this part of this Schedule, references to a trade or business include
references to a profession or vocation.
Partnerships
