[PAGE 110]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  494
 2025  No. 7
to National Grid or Nigeria Bulk Electricity Trading Company (NBET) ;
(k) electricity transmitted by Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN)
to Electricity Distribution Companies (DISCOs) ;
(l) medical services ;
(m) tuition relating to nursery, primary, secondary or tertiary education ;
(n) exported goods excluding oil and gas ;
(o) exported services ;
(p) exported incorporeal property ;
(q) medical equipment.
187.  Where, a government or an agency of a government in Nigeria has
entered into an agreement with the government of another country or a
donor agency for the provision of developmental financing for any project in
Nigeria, and such agreement provides for the exemption of supplies made
under the project from VAT, the President may, by an order published in the
Official Gazette, give effect to the exemption.
188.  For the purposes of this Part and Chapter Six of this Act —
"Baby Products" means products made for the use of babies from birth
to 3 years of age and described below —
(a) baby activity and entertainment products e.g. baby safety car and
home accessories, high chairs, cots/bassinets/baskets/cribs etc along with
parts and accessories ;
(b) baby bathtub, sponges, towels, etc. baby grooming kit, baby creams,
powders, lotions etc ;
(c) baby carriage and parts e.g. carriers/slings/bouncers/swing/rockers
etc along with parts and accessories ;
(d) baby garments and clothing of any material ;
(e) feeding products, e.g. feeding bottle, feeding bottle warmers and re-
lated accessories ;
(f) plates, spoons, cups, sippy cups, etc., breast pumps and accessories,
nursing and feeding pillows etc. ;
(g) sanitary wares, e.g. diapers, wipes and related products, diaper bags,
potty and toilet training devices, baby mattress waterproof cover, baby
toiletries, changing table and mat ; and
(h) others, e.g. baby monitors along with parts and accessories ;
"Basic Food Items" means an agriculture-based or aquatic-based  staple
food including —
(a) locally produced table honey ;
(b) white bread and brown bread ;
Interpreta-
tion
Exemption
by Order of
the President
