[PAGE 14]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  398
 2025  No. 7
manner or amount that the company would have been charged if no receiver,
liquidator or administrator had been appointed.
(2) An individual may be charged to tax —
(a) in the individual's name ;
(b) in the name of a family, trustee or estate; or
(c) in the name of an administrator, or any attorney, agent or representa-
tive in Nigeria, in like manner and to like amount as such an individual would
have been charged if no administrator, attorney, agent or representative had
been appointed.
PART II – TAXATION OF RESIDENT PERSONS
6.—(1) The profits of a Nigerian company are deemed to accrue in
Nigeria wherever the profits arise and whether or not such profits have been
brought into or received in Nigeria.
(2) Where a foreign company which is controlled by a Nigerian company
has not, in a year, distributed profits to its shareholders, the proportion of the
profits of the controlled foreign company attributable to the Nigerian company,
which could have been distributed without detriment to the company's business
shall be construed as distributed and included in the profits of the Nigerian
company for the purposes of subsection (1) of this section.
(3) Where the income tax paid by a non-resident company which is a
subsidiary of a Nigerian company or a member of a multinational group of a
Nigerian company in any year yields less than the minimum effective tax rate
prescribed by this Act, the Nigerian parent company shall pay an amount to
make that non-resident subsidiary's income tax equal to the minimum effective
tax rate.
(4) The Nigeria Revenue Service (the Service) shall provide detailed
rules for the implementation of subsections (2) and (3) of this section.
7.—(1) Nigerian dividends include —
(a) dividend distributed by a Nigerian company, and shall be the gross
amount of that dividend before any deduction ; and
(b) any amount of the undistributed profit of a Nigerian company, which
is treated as distributed under the provisions of any law in Nigeria.
(2) The income from a dividend distributed by a Nigerian company is
deemed to arise on the day on which payment of that dividend becomes due.
8.—(1)  A company shall include dividend income in its profits, gross of
any tax paid or deducted at source.
(2) Dividends received by a Nigerian company by way of shares of the
Nigerian divi-
dends
Nigerian
company
Profits of a
company
from certain
dividends
