[PAGE 92]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  476
 2025  No. 7
obligation to withhold the VAT, except where the person appointed has failed
to collect the VAT.
(5) Where a person appointed under subsection (3) does not process
payments in respect of the supplies but receives commission relating to the
supplies, the appointed person shall use the mechanism with which it collects
its commission to collect the VAT.
(6) A non-resident person that makes a taxable supply to a person in
Nigeria may appoint a representative for the purpose of compliance with its
VAT obligations.
(7) The Service may issue guidelines for the purpose of giving effect to
the provisions of this section, including the form, time and procedure for filing
returns and payment by non-resident suppliers appointed by the Service under
subsection (3).
(8) Where taxable goods are imported into Nigeria through an online
electronic or digital platform operated by a non-resident supplier and VAT has
been collected by the Service or any person appointed by the Service, the
goods shall not be further subjected to VAT before clearing upon provision of
proof of payment of the VAT.
         PART II – REMITTANCES AND RECOVERY OF VAT
151.—(1) A taxable person shall pay VAT to a supplier on the taxable
supply made to the person.
(2)  The VAT paid by a taxable person under subsection (1) shall be
known as input VAT.
152.—(1) A taxable person who makes a taxable supply shall maintain a
sequential invoice numbering, and shall in respect of a supply, furnish the pur-
chaser with a VAT invoice containing, the following —
(a) supplier's tax ID ;
(b) name and address of the supplier and sequential invoice number ;
(c) supplier's incorporation or business registration number as
applicable ;
(d) the date of supply ;
(e) name of purchaser or client ;
(f) gross amount of transaction ; and
(g) VAT charged and the rate.
(2) VAT invoice shall be issued on supply whether or not payment is
made at the time of supply.
(3) VAT invoice shall be issued by a taxable person making a taxable
Payment of
VAT by
taxable
person
VAT Invoice
