[PAGE 56]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  440
 2025  No. 7
of comparable quality and gravity,
due regard being had in either case to freight differentials and other rel-
evant factors.
(6) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Part, where crude oil,
which in relation to a particular company is its chargeable oil, is sold or disposed
by another company, the crude oil shall for the purpose of this section be
deemed to be sold or disposed by that particular company.
74. Where a company has not commenced the production and sale or
disposal of chargeable oil, all costs incurred wholly and exclusively for the
purpose of coming into upstream petroleum operations, subject to sections 68
and 69 of this Act, shall upon commencement of production and sale or  disposal
of chargeable oil be deemed to have incurred a qualifying pre-production  capital
expenditure which shall be amortised in line with paragraphs 2 and 14 of Part
II of the First Schedule to this Act.
75. The sale or transfer of a trade or business of upstream petroleum
operations carried on in Nigeria by a company to another company shall be
treated in accordance with section 191 of this Act.
76. (1) A company engaged in upstream petroleum operations across
terrains shall be allowed to consolidate costs and incomes for the purpose of
income tax under Chapter Two of this Act.
(2) A company engaged in upstream petroleum operations related to crude
oil across terrains shall be allowed to consolidate costs and revenue for the
purposes of hydrocarbon tax, only across assets in which it holds licences and
leases in accordance with the two categories of chargeable tax stipulated in
section 72 of this Act
77.—(1) A person, other than a company, who engages in upstream
petroleum operations either on his own account or jointly with any other person
or in partnership with any other person with a view to sharing the profits
arising from the operations, commits an offence.
(2) Where the person referred to in subsection (1) has benefitted from
any profits on upstream petroleum operations, the person shall be subject to
hydrocarbon tax and income tax under section 78 of this Act on the profits and
shall  pay a penalty provided under the Nigeria Tax Administration Act.
(3) Where two or more companies are engaged in upstream petroleum
operations either in partnership, in a joint venture or in concert under any
scheme or arrangement, tax shall be charged and assessed on them in
accordance with subsection (4) of this section.
(4) The apportionment of any profits, outgoings, expenses, liabilities, de-
ductions, qualifying expenditure and the tax chargeable upon each company
shall be in line with the equity interest of the parties under a jointly executed
Trade or
business sold
or trans-
ferred
Consolida-
tion of costs
and revenue
Partnerships
Pre-
production
cost
First
Schedule
