[PAGE 101]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  485
and share capital of the company, or proposed company, including the amount
and date of each issued shares or proposed issue, and the source from
which the capital is to be or has been raised ;
(h) in the case of a company already incorporated, provide the details of
the ownership structure of the company and the nationality of each director
of the company ; and
(i) in the case of a proposed company, provide the name, Tax ID,  address,
and nationality of each promoter of the company and the proposed owner-
ship structure.
(3) An application shall contain a declaration signed by the applicant that
all the information contained in the application is true, and an undertaking to
produce proof, if required.
(4) The application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee of
0.1% of the qualifying capital expenditure incurred or to be incurred, subject to
a maximum of N5,000,000 and no further fee shall be payable to the NIPC in
respect of the application.
(5) The NIPC shall recommend the application to the Minister, for
approval or otherwise, including the projected tax expenditure impact report in
its recommendation.
(6) The Minister, acting on the recommendation of the NIPC, may
recommend the application to the President for approval.
(7) An economic development incentive certificate shall not be issued to
a company without the approval of the President.
(8) The NIPC shall submit an annual report of the list of sectors and
companies that have benefited under this Part to the Minister who shall, not
later than 30 days, present a copy of the report to the President and the  National
Economic Council.
168.—(1) A company whose application has been approved in line with
section 169 of this Act, shall be issued an economic development incentive
certificate.
(2) Where a sector is removed from the Tenth  Schedule to this Act —
(a) economic development incentive certificate shall not be issued to a
company in relation to that sector with respect to any pending application
made under section 169 of this Act ; and
(b) a company issued an economic development incentive certificate
before the removal shall exhaust its unexpired incentive period only.
Approval of
application
Tenth
Schedule
