[PAGE 207]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  591
from which any part of the earned income is derived, if the income is derived from
more than one territory.
Unearned income
7.—An individual, other than a corporation sole or body of individuals, who
has no source of earned income in Nigeria for a year of assessment but who has
one or more source of unearned income in Nigeria for that year shall be deemed to
be resident for that year in the territory in which he has a place or principal place of
residence on 1st January of that year, provided that where —
(a) all the unearned income of the individual for that year arises in one terri-
tory, and he has no place of residence on that day, he shall be deemed to be resident
for that year in that territory; and
(b) the unearned income of the individual arises for that year in more than one
territory, and he has no place of residence on that day, he shall be deemed to be
resident for that year in the territory from which any part of the unearned income
arises.
Application
8.—(1) Where the territory of residence of an individual for a year of assess-
ment may be determined under more than one of the preceding paragraphs of this
Schedule, it shall be determined by the first-numbered paragraph which is appli-
cable to his circumstances.
(2) Where, by reason of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, or otherwise, a
determination of residence of an individual for a year of assessment falls to be
revised, and the tax authority that raised an assessment is other than that territory in
which the individual is finally determined to be resident for that year, the first-
mentioned tax authority shall discharge any assessment made by it on the income
of the individual for that year.
Corporation sole or body of individuals
9. A corporation sole or body of individuals other than a family or community
shall be deemed to be resident for a year of assessment in the territory in which its
principal office in Nigeria is situated on 1st January in that year or, if it has no office
in Nigeria on that day, in a territory in which any part or the whole of its income
liable to tax in Nigeria arises for that year.
Family income
10. Income of a family shall be taxed only by the territory in which the mem-
ber of that family who customarily receives that income in the first instance in
Nigeria usually resides.
Trust
11. Income of a trustee of any settlements or trusts, or estates or to an execu-
tor of any estate of a deceased person, shall be taxed only by the territory in which
