[PAGE 89]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  473
141.—(1) Where multiple instruments chargeable with advalorem duties
are executed for effecting the same transaction, only one of the instruments,
as may be determined by the relevant tax authority, shall be charged with the
ad valorem duty.
(2) Any other instrument referred to in subsection (1) of this section shall
be stamped as counterparts at flat rates prescribed in the Ninth Schedule to
this Act.
142.  Where an instrument chargeable with ad valorem duty consists of
non-monetary consideration, the value shall be deemed as the market value of
the consideration or part thereof.
CHAPTER SIX
VALUE ADDED TAX
PART I – IMPOSITION OF VALUE ADDED TAX
143.  Value Added Tax (VAT) is imposed in accordance with the provi-
sions of chapter six of this Act.
144.  Subject to the exemptions in Part IV of Chapter Eight of this Act,
VAT shall be paid on all taxable supplies in Nigeria.
145.  A taxable supply shall be deemed to take place in Nigeria where, in
respect of —
(a) goods —
(i) the goods are physically present, imported into, assembled or  installed
in Nigeria at the time of supply ; or
(ii) the beneficial owner of the rights in or over the goods is a taxable
person in Nigeria and the goods or right is situated, registered or exercisable
in Nigeria ;
(b) a service —
(i) the service is provided to and consumed by a person in Nigeria,
regardless of whether the service is rendered within or outside Nigeria
or whether or not the legal or contractual obligation to render such serv-
ice rests on a person within or outside Nigeria, or
(ii) the service is connected with existing immovable property, includ-
ing the services of agents, experts, engineers, architects, valuers, etc.,
where the property is located in Nigeria ; and
(c) an incorporeal —
Taxable
supplies
Imposition
of Value
Added Tax
Charge of
VAT
Duty
relating to
multiple
instruments
covering
same
transaction
Ninth
Schedule
Provisions on
non-
monetary
consideration
