[PAGE 142]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  526
 2025  No. 7
(3) Where a company incurs qualifying building expenditure or qualifying
drilling expenditure on the construction of a building, structure or works, the
company is entitled to two or more interests, and one of those interests is an
interest which is reversionary on all the others, that interest shall be the rel-
evant interest for the purpose of this Part.
(4) Where the owner of the relevant interest is not the licensee or lessee,
the qualifying capital expenditure and the capital allowance accruing therefrom
shall be to the benefit of the holder of the licence or lease.
Capital Allowance
4.—(1) Where in any accounting period, a company has incurred quali-
fying expenditure wholly and exclusively for the purpose of upstream petroleum
operations applicable to crude oil carried on by it, there shall be due to that
company as from the accounting period in which the expenditure was incurred,
an allowance at the appropriate rate specified in the table to this Part.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph,
there shall be recorded in the capital allowance computation schedule for sta-
tistical purposes until the asset is disposed, 1% of the qualifying capital ex-
penditure, which being a notional amount, shall not increase or reduce the
amount of capital allowance claimable under this Part.
(3) Any asset or part of it in respect of which capital allowance has been
granted, shall not be disposed, except on the authority of a certificate of dis-
posal issued by the Commission.
Asset to be in use
5. Subject to paragraph 15 of this Part, a capital allowance in respect of
qualifying expenditure incurred on an asset shall be due to a company for any
accounting period if at the end of the accounting period it was the owner of
that asset and the asset was in use for the purpose of the upstream petroleum
operations applicable to crude oil carried on by it.
Residue
6. The residue of a qualifying expenditure, in respect of an asset, at any
date, is the total qualifying expenditure incurred on or before the date, by the
owner, in respect of that asset, less the total of any capital allowance made, in
respect of that asset, before that date.
Disposal of qualifying capital expenditure
7. Under this Part —
(a) a building, structure or works of a permanent nature is disposed where
any of the following events occur —
(i) the relevant interest is sold,
