[PAGE 138]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  522
 2025  No. 7
19.—(1) Where a trade or business is carried on by persons in a partner-
ship, the trade or business of the partnership is treated as a single enterprise
and any allowance that applies to the individual partners are computed as if the
single enterprise conducted all the trade or business activities performed by
the individual partners involved in that trade or business during the period.
(2) Where a partner joins or leaves the partnership during a basis period,
it shall be treated as if the business ceased at that time and recommenced
immediately thereafter, and the provisions of paragraph (17) of this part shall
apply in respect of the assets transferred to the new business.
(3) Capital allowances related to assets shall be apportioned among the
partners in their profit-sharing ratio at the end of the basis period.
(4) Where capital allowance is required to be recomputed as a result of
the application of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, all such additional as-
sessments or repayments of tax shall be made as may be necessary to give
effect to the provisions of this paragraph.
(5) Where the application of this paragraph is inconsistent with any of
the provisions of the other paragraphs of this part, the provisions shall apply
with such modifications as the relevant tax authority may consider necessary
and prescribe rules embodying those modifications.
Allowance made
20. Any reference in this part to an allowance made includes a refer-
ence to an allowance which would have been made but for an insufficiency of
assessable profit or income against which to make it.
Claims for allowance
21.—(1) An allowance shall not be made to a person for a year of as-
sessment unless it is claimed by the person for that year or where the relevant
tax authority is of the opinion that it would be just to the taxpayer and reasonable
to do so.
(2) Where an allowance is not claimed in the year of assessment in the
basis period for which that asset was used for the purposes of that trade or
business, it shall be carried forward to subsequent period(s).
Manner of making allowance
22.—(1) An allowance to be made to a person under the provisions of
this Part shall be subtracted from the remainder of the assessable profits or
income for the relevant year of assessment.
(2) For the purpose of this paragraph, the remainder of the assessable
profits or income of a person for a year of assessment shall be determined by
giving full effect to the provisions of section 27 of this Act in the case of a
