[PAGE 106]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  490
 2025  No. 7
(b) the relative cost, including freight and insurance, of imported prod-
ucts equivalent or similar to the priority products produced by the comp-
any ; or
(c) any other matter as may be required for the purposes of this Part or
any provision of this Act.
175. The NIPC shall cause to be published in the Federal Government
Gazette —
(a) the name of any company to which an economic development incen-
tive certificate has been issued and the priority sector or product to which
the certificate relates ;
(b) the name of any company whose economic development incentive
certificate has been cancelled and the effective date of the cancellation ;
and
(c) any restriction of the incentive period of a company granted an eco-
nomic development incentive status.
176.—(1) The economic development tax credit at the rate of 5% per
annum for a period of 5 years shall apply to each eligible Qualifying Capital
Expenditure acquired within 5 yeras effective from the production date.
(2) Subject to section 57 of this Act, the economic development tax credit
may be utilised to offset the tax payable of any year of assessment during the
priority period, except the additional tax payable under that section
(3) A company having unutilised tax credit or eligible QCE on which 5%
per annum tax credit is yet to be claimed for 5 years, after the end of the
priority period, may within 5 years thereafter carry forward such utilised tax
credit and any amount remaining unutilised shall lapse
177. The incentive period of a priority company shall commence on the
production day of the company, and subject to sections 170, 171 and 175 of this
Act, shall be for a period of five years.
178.—(1) Where a priority company carries on a non-priority business,
the company shall maintain separate records of income and books of account
for each business.
(2) The records of each business certified by an auditor, shall be sufficient
to enable the determination of the turnover, income or profits of each class of
business.
(3) Where, in the opinion of the Service, the company has not complied
with the provision of this section, all the income of the company shall be deemed
non-priority and economic development tax credit shall not be granted.
Economic
development
tax credit
Publication
of economic
development
incentive
certificate
Books and
records for
priority
products
Economic
development
Incentive
period
