[PAGE 153]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  537
1. This schedule applies to the export processing and free trade zones,
(the zones) and approved export processing and free trade zone entities, (the
entities).
2. In this Schedule —
(a) "export processing zone entity" means an approved and licensed
enterprise under the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Act Cap. N107, Laws
of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 ; and
(b) "export free zone entity" means an approved and licensed enter-
prise under Oil and Gas Free Zones Authority Act Cap. O5, Laws of the
Federation of Nigeria, 2004.
3. Subject to paragraph (4) of this Schedule and the provisions of section
57, the profits of an export processing zone entity are fully exempt from tax
where —
(a) its total sales arise from the export of goods or services, or serve as
inputs into goods or services exclusively for export ;
(b) not more than 25% of its sales arise from the sale of goods or  services
to the customs territory in Nigeria ; and
(c) the goods and services are sold to persons engaged in upstream,
midstream or downstream petroleum or gas operations.
4. Where, in a year of assessment, more than 25% of the sales of an
export processing zone entity arise from the sale of goods or services in the
customs territory, tax shall accrue in Nigeria on the profits of the entity in
respect of its total sales to the custom territory.
5. Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 3(ii) of this Schedule, the
profits of an export processing zone entity shall be fully subject to tax effective
from 1 January 2028, in respect of its sales to the customs territory in Nigeria,
regardless of the percentage of the sales.
6. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Schedule or any other law, an
export processing or export free zone entity shall comply with all relevant
provisions of the Nigeria Tax Administration including those requiring —
(a) registration ;
(b) filing of tax returns ; and
(c) deduction of tax at source.
7. Where an entity in a zone contracts out manufacturing services or any
of its approved activity within the zone to a related or connected resident
company that is not an entity in the zones, all incomes derived from the sale by
the entity in the zone, of the goods produced shall be treated as the incomes of
the related or connected resident company, except the Service is satisfied that
the transaction provided was conducted as arm's length.
