[PAGE 161]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  545
person a reciprocal arrangement for that other person to make or enter into
a settlement.
PART III — SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
10. For the purposes of Chapter Two of this Act and Part I of the First
Schedule to this Act, where an asset of a trade or business, profession or
vocation forms part of the estate of a deceased individual, being an asset in
respect of which capital allowance may be claimed in arriving at the total
income of that individual for the year of assessment in which the individual
died, the estate shall be deemed to have incurred qualifying expenditure on the
acquisition of the asset equal in amount to the residue of the expenditure on the
day following the death of the individual.
11. An individual in receipt of an annuity of fixed annual amount paid out
of the income of a settlement, trust or an estate shall be assessable to tax on
the full amount of the annuity.
12. The income arising from a settlement, trust or an estate assessable
to tax under a provision of this Schedule in the hands of any settlor, trustee,
executor, beneficiary or annuitant for a year of assessment shall be the amount
of the income ascertained under the foregoing provisions of this Schedule of
the year preceding that year.
13.—(1) Where the income of a settlement, trust or estate of a year
includes an income which is taxable in Nigeria and elsewhere, whether by
deduction or otherwise, the provisions of Chapter Four of this Act with respect
to any relief to be given or repayment to be made shall apply as though the
whole of the taxed income were receivable by the persons to whom the
computed income of that year is apportioned under the provisions of paragraph
4 of this
Schedule —
(a) in due proportion to their respective shares therein ; or
(b) where paragraph 4(b) of this Schedule applies in proportion to their
shares in the remainder of the computed income as therein specified, and
where there is no computed income, the relief or repayment shall be given
or made to the trustee or executor for the account of the settlement, trust or
estate
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, references to an individual in
Chapter Two of this Act shall be deemed to include references to a trustee or
executor.
14. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Schedule —
(a) a trustee of a settlement or trust, and every executor, shall be
answerable for all things to be done in connection with the tax under this
