[PAGE 63]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  447
Government has successfully exercised its back-in rights prior to the effective
date of the Petroleum Industry Act, but any renewal of an oil mining lease shall
be based on the provisions of this Part and the Petroleum Industry Act.
(3) The fiscal provisions of this part are the base terms that are applica-
ble, and the Commission may under section 74(2) of Petroleum Industry Act
conduct a licensing round whereby the bid parameter is a higher royalty, profit
oil share or other fiscal features in order to ensure that the Government re-
ceives the full market value for each block.
88.—(1) Fiscal stabilisation sections contained in a production sharing
contract or other contracts entered into after the commencement of the
Petroleum Industry Act shall not be applicable to the fiscal provisions listed in
this part, regardless of whether the changes in fiscal provisions affect the
contractor favourably or unfavourably, provided such changes in fiscal provi-
sion are being made in a manner that is not discriminatory to the petroleum
industry or the contractor.
(2) The respective fiscal provisions referred to in subsection (1) of this
section are —
(a) generally applicable taxes, such as income tax, development levy,
value added tax, stamp duties, and deduction of tax at source ;
(b) levies, taxes or payments to comply with modern principles in respect
of environment, labour laws, health and safety ; and
(c) new taxes, levies or duties as may be prescribed by the Climate
Change Act, or to implement Nigeria's commitments with respect to cli-
mate change under any international agreement.
PART II – PETROLEUM PROFITS TAX
IMPOSITION OF TAX AND ASCERTAINMENT OF CHARGEABLE PROFITS, ASCERTAIN-
MENT OF ASSESSABLE TAX AND OF CHARGEABLE TAX
89.—(1) This Part shall apply to oil prospecting licences and oil mining
leases that are yet to convert under the provisions of the Petroleum Industry
Act.
(2) Subject to Part I of Chapter Three of this Act and subsection (1) of
this section, there is levied upon the profits of each accounting period of a
company engaged in petroleum operations during that period a tax to be charged,
assessed and payable in accordance with the provisions of this Part.
Fiscal
stabilisation
Charge of
petroleum
profits tax
Act, No. 6,
2021
Act No. 6,
2021
Act No. 6,
2021
