[PAGE 83]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  467
by regulation are considered upstream petroleum operations, and related
administration and overhead.
CHAPTER FOUR
RELIEF FOR DOUBLE TAXATION
119.—(1) Where, in any year of assessment, any part of the income or
profit of a resident of Nigeria, derived from outside Nigeria, has been charged
to tax in the source country, and that income or profit is also chargeable to tax
in Nigeria, the tax paid outside Nigeria may be allowed as a credit against the
tax payable in Nigeria.
(2) The credit to be allowed in subsection (1) shall be the lower of the –
(a) Nigerian tax, other than taxes under chapter three of this Act, attrib-
utable to the foreign income or profit ; and
(b) amount of tax paid in the source country.
(3) The Nigerian tax under subsection (2) (a) attributable to the foreign
income or profit shall be the proportion of the foreign income to total income,
multiplied by the Nigerian tax.
120.—(1) Where the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
enters into an agreement with a treaty partner for the purpose of providing
relief from double taxation in relation to tax imposed under this Act, the agree-
ment shall have effect upon ratification or domestication by the National As-
sembly.
(2) Relief from double taxation shall be in respect of income tax paid
under the laws of a treaty partner against income taxes imposed under this
Act.
(3) Where an agreement has taken effect, any obligation as to secrecy in
Nigeria Tax Administration Act or any other law in Nigeria shall not prevent
the disclosure of any information required to be disclosed under the agreement
to an authorised officer of a treaty partner.
(4) The Minister may make rules for implementing the provisions of any
agreement under this section.
(5) For the purposes of providing relief in Nigeria from double taxation,
all extant double taxation agreements are deemed to have been made under
the provisions of this section and shall apply throughout Nigeria with effect
from 1st January of the year immediately following the date the agreement
entered into force.
(6) The agreement in subsection (1) of this section shall be for the pur-
pose of elimination of double taxation, without creating opportunities for non-
taxation or reduced taxation through tax evasion, avoidance or other forms of
abuse, including treaty-shopping arrangements aimed at obtaining reliefs pro-
Unilateral
relief of
double
taxation
Double
taxation
agreement
