[PAGE 45]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  429
58. The income tax payable on the chargeable income of an individual,
other than an individual earning the Minimum Wage in line with the Minimum
Wage Act, in respect of each year of assessment, shall be as specified in the
Fourth Schedule to this Act.
PART X – DEVELOPMENT LEVY
59.—(1) A development levy of 4% is imposed on the assessable profits
of all companies chargeable to tax under Chapters Two and Three of this Act,
other than small companies and non-resident companies.
(2) The Service shall collect the levy and pay it into a special account
created for that purpose.
(3) The revenue accruing from the levy shall be distributed as follows –
(a) Tertiary Education Trust Fund – 50% ;
(b)  Nigerian Education Loan – 15% ;
(c)   National Information Technology Development Fund – 8% ;
(d)  National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure – 8% ;
(e)  National Board for Technological Incubation – 4% ;
(f)  Defence and Security Infrastructure Fund –10% ; and
(g)  National Cybersecurity Fund – 5%.
(4) The tax imposed under this Part shall not be levied on assessable
profits computed for the purposes of hydrocarbon tax.
(5) For the purpose of this section, every beneficiary agency and Fund in
subsection (3) shall be required to prepare and submit their income and
expenditure to the National Assembly for appropriation.
(6) The provisions of the Fourteenth Schedule shall apply for the purpose
of further allocation of the distribution in subsection (3)(f) of this section.
PART XI – SPECIALISED TRADE OR BUSINESS
60. Where a trade or business is carried on by an approved enterprise in
an export processing or free trade zone, the provisions of the Second Schedule
to this Act shall apply.
61.—(1) An insurance business shall be taxed as a —
(a) general insurance company, whether proprietary or mutual, other
Develop-
ment Levy
Act No. 8,
2019
Fourth
Schedule
Rates of tax
for individu-
als
Fourteenth
Schedule
Export
Processing
and Free
Zone
entities
Second
Schedule
Insurance
trade or
business
