[PAGE 28]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  412
 2025  No. 7
was not charged, or in the case of imported items, any expense on which
the applicable import duty or levy was not paid.
PART V –  ASCERTAINMENT OF ASSESSABLE PROFITS
AND INCOME
22. —(1) Except as provided in this section, the profits of any trade,
business, profession or vocation for each year of assessment (the assessable
profits) shall be the profits of the accounting period immediately preceding the
year of assessment from all sources.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, the
assessable profits of the first year of assessment for a new business, shall be
the profits from the date in which such trade, business, profession or vocation
commences in Nigeria to the end of the first accounting period.
23. —(1) Where a taxable person changes the date to which it usually
computes its assessable profits, the basis period for the computation of the
assessable profits for the relevant year of assessment shall be the period
commencing from the first day after the basis period of the immediately
preceding year of assessment up to the new date on which the account was
made, and the assessable profits of subsequent years of assessments shall be
computed on the basis of the new accounting period.
(2)  Where there is a change in the accounting date under subsection (1)
of this section, the taxable person shall notify the relevant tax authority not
later than 30 days before the usual due date of filing its income tax returns.
24. —(1) Where a trade, business, profession or vocation permanently
ceases to carry on operations in Nigeria in an accounting period, the assessable
profits for the relevant year of assessment shall be the amount of the profits
from the beginning of the accounting period to the date of cessation and the
tax shall be payable within six months from the date of cessation.
(2) Where, after the date of cessation, the trade, business, profession or
vocation, or its receivers or liquidators, receive or pay any sum which ought to
have been included in or deducted from the profits of that trade or business if
it had been received or paid prior to that date, such sum shall be deemed for
the purposes of this Act to have been received or paid by the trade, business,
profession or vocation on the last day before such cessation occurred and
such sums shall be disclosed to the relevant tax authority within one month of
the receipt or payment.
(3) Where the provisions of subsection (2) of this section apply, any
additional assessment or claim for reduction of assessment or repayment of
tax shall be made as may be necessary to give effect to the provisions, pro-
vided that the provisions of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act relating to
objections and appeals shall apply to the additional assessment or claim of
Basis for
computing
assessable
profits for
trade or
business
Change in
accounting
date
Cessation of
trade or
business
