[PAGE 72]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  456
 2025  No. 7
suffers those things under that partnership, joint venture, scheme or
arrangement.
PART III – DEEP OFFSHORE AND INLAND BASIN
PRODUCTION SHARING CONTRACTS
101.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act or
any other law, the provisions of this Part shall apply to deep offshore and
inland basin production sharing contracts that are yet to convert under the
provisions of the Petroleum Industry Act, or have been renegotiated in accord-
ance with the provisions of the Petroleum Industry Act.
102.  The duration of an oil prospecting licence relating to production
sharing contracts in the deep offshore and inland basin shall be determined by
the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to petroleum and
shall be for a minimum period of five years and not exceeding ten years.
103.  (1) The petroleum profits tax payable under a production sharing
contract shall be determined in accordance with Part II of Chapter Three of
this Act, provided that the petroleum profits tax rate applicable to the contract
area as defined in the production sharing contracts shall be 50% of chargeable
profits for the duration of the production sharing contracts.
(2) Nothing contained in this Part shall be construed as having exempted
any holder or contractor from the payment of any other tax, duty or levy
imposed by any Federal, State or Local Government, or Area Council Authority.
104.  Where a holder and a contractor have incurred any qualifying
capital expenditure wholly and exclusively for the purposes of petroleum op-
erations carried out under the terms of a production sharing contract in the
deep offshore or inland basin, the parties shall be entitled to investment tax
allowance at a rate of 50% of the qualifying expenditure in accordance with
the provisions of existing applicable legislation for the accounting period in
which that asset was first used for the purposes of such operations.
105.  Royalty shall be determined and payable in accordance with the
provisions of the Seventh Schedule to the Petroleum Industry Act.
106.  Computation of estimated and final petroleum profit tax shall be
made in the US dollars on the basis of the US dollar returns filed.
107.  Royalty oil shall be allocated to the Commission or the holder, in
such quantum as shall generate an amount equal to actual royalty payable
Royalty
payable in
respect of
deep offshore
production
sharing
contracts
Computation
of petroleum
profits tax
Allocation of
royalty oil
Determina-
tion of
petroleum
profits tax
Determina-
tion of
investment
tax credit
and
investment
tax allow-
ance
Production
sharing
contracts
Duration of
oil prospect-
ing licence
Act No. 6,
2021
Act No. 6,
2021
