[PAGE 94]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  478
 2025  No. 7
(b) input VAT exceeds the output VAT, be entitled to utilise the excess
tax as a credit against subsequent months.
(2) A taxable person shall be entitled to a refund of excess VAT not
utilised as a credit, upon request to the Service and provision of such informa-
tion or documents as the Service may  require.
(3) An importer of taxable goods shall, before clearing those goods, pay
to the Service the VAT on the goods.
(4) Input tax incurred by a registered person on any taxable supply, in-
cluding services and fixed assets made to such person, may be deducted from
the tax payable by the person on its taxable supplies at the end of the tax
period in which the supply occurred, but only to the extent that the input tax
was incurred for the purpose of consumption, use or supply in the course of
making taxable supplies.
Provided that —
(a) where any input tax is incurred in making both taxable and non-
taxable supplies, only the proportion relating to making taxable supplies may
be deducted ;
(b) the input tax shall be allowable for deduction within five years after
the end of the tax period in which the input tax was incurred.
(5) The input tax which may be deducted in line with subsection (4) of
this Section shall be limited to taxable supplies made as from the commence-
ment of this Act.
156. The provisions of section 191 of this Act shall apply in respect of
sale or transfer of trade, business, profession or vocation carried on in Nigeria.
157.—(1) A taxable person making a taxable supply shall implement the
fiscalisation system deployed by the Service in accordance with Nigeria Tax
Administration Act.
(2) The fiscalisation system may include fiscal equipment consisting of
electronic devices, software solutions or a communication system involving a
secured network, or any such combination of the components for electronic
invoicing and data transfer as the Service may prescribe or deploy.
CHAPTER SEVEN
SURCHARGE
158. A surcharge is imposed at 5% on chargeable fossil fuel products
provided or produced in Nigeria, and shall be collected at the time a charge-
able transaction occurs.
159.—(1) For the purpose of imposing surcharge on fossil fuel product,
the chargeable transaction shall be the supply, sale or payment whichever
occurs first.
Fiscalisation
of supplies
for VAT
Imposition
of surcharge
Chargeable
transaction
and base for
surcharge
Business
restructur-
ing
