[PAGE 144]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  528
 2025  No. 7
(i) the amount claimable in respect of the residue of the old asset, and
(ii) full allowance in respect of the additional asset acquired, being the
amount with which the cost of that new asset acquired exceeds the
compensation together with the residual or scrap value.
Part of an asset
9. Any reference in this part to any asset shall be construed whenever
necessary, to include a reference to a part of an asset or an undivided part of
the asset in the case of joint interests, and when so construed, any necessary
apportionment shall be made in a manner, which in the opinion of the Service,
is just and reasonable.
Apportionment
10.—(1) Any reference in this part to the disposal, sale or purchase of
any asset or interest includes a reference to the disposal, sale or purchase of
that asset, together with any associated asset, whether or not qualifying ex-
penditure has been incurred on such associated asset.
(2) Where an asset is disposed, sold, or purchased together with another
asset, the proportion of the value of the assets, on a just apportionment, attrib-
utable to the first mentioned asset shall, for the purposes of this part, be the
value of, or the price paid for the assets.
(3) For the purpose of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, assets or
interest purchased or disposed in one bargain shall be deemed to be purchased
or disposed together, notwithstanding that separate prices are or purport to be
agreed for each of the assets, or that there are or purport to be separate
purchases or disposals of the assets.
(4) The provisions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph shall apply, with
modifications, to the sale or purchase of the relevant interest in any asset
together with any other asset or relevant interest in that other asset provided
that the provisions for apportionment in this paragraph shall not apply in the
sale or disposal of concessions or interest in a part of the asset.
Exclusion of certain expenditure
11. Where any company has incurred expenditure which is allowed to be
deducted under any provision of this Act, other than a provision of this part,
such expenditure shall not be treated as qualifying expenditure.
Asset used or expenditure incurred partly for
the purpose of petroleum operations
12.—(1) The following provisions of this paragraph shall apply where
either or both of the following conditions apply with respect to any asset, the –
(a) owner of the asset has incurred in respect of the asset a qualifying
