[PAGE 116]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  500
 2025  No. 7
(4) The relevant tax authority shall be notified of any restructuring of a
trade, business, profession or vocation prior to commencing such arrange-
ment.
(5) Reference to a trade or business in this section include references to
any part of the trade or business.
(6) VAT charged under Chapter Six of this Act shall not apply to business
restructuring carried out in accordance with this Act.
(7) Where a business, or a part of the business, which is capable of
separate operation is transferred as a going concern and the purchaser uses
the assets in the same kind of business, such transfer shall not be treated as a
supply of goods or services for the purposes of VAT, provided that the pur-
chaser is registered in accordance with Part II of the Nigeria Tax Administra-
tion Act or registerable as a result of the transfer.
190.—(1) Where a relevant tax authority is of the opinion that a disposition
is not given effect to, or that a transaction which reduces or may reduce the
amount of tax payable, is artificial or fictitious, it may disregard any such dis-
position or transaction, or direct that such adjustments be made with respect to
liability to tax as it considers appropriate, to counteract the reduction of liability
to tax and issue an assessment or additional assessment accordingly.
(2) The provisions relating to objections and appeals under Chapter Four
of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act shall apply to a direction made under
this section.
(3) For the purpose of this section —
(a) "disposition" includes any trust, grant, covenant, agreement or
arrangement ; and
(b) a transaction between connected persons shall be deemed to be
artificial or fictitious if, in the opinion of the relevant tax authority, the
transaction has not been made at arm's length.
191.—(1) A company involved in an arrangement with a related party
shall —
(a) ensure that the terms and conditions for which the arrangement is
carried out is at arm's length ; and
(b) report the arrangement in the form and manner prescribed by the
relevant tax authority.
(2) Where, in the opinion of a relevant tax authority, a company has
entered into an arrangement with a related party which is not at arm's length,
it may effect necessary adjustments to bring the arrangement in conformity to
arm's length terms as provided under the Transfer Pricing Regulations.
(3) The relevant tax authority may make rules or regulations for the
Artificial
transactions
Transactions
between
related
parties to be
at arm's
length
