[PAGE 136]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  520
 2025  No. 7
(4) Where the relevant interest in an asset is disposed not by way of
bargain made at arm's length or where the sale is between connected persons,
the value of the asset shall be determined by reference to the arm's length
price of the asset.
Apportionment
11.—(1) Where a qualifying asset is disposed, sold, or purchased together
with a non-qualifying asset, the proportion of the value of the asset, on a just
apportionment, attributable to the qualifying asset shall, for the purposes of this
part, be the value of or the price paid for the asset.
(2) For the purposes of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, assets pur-
chased or disposed in one bargain shall be deemed to be purchased or dis-
posed together, notwithstanding that separate prices are or purport to be agreed
for each of the assets, or that there are or purport to be separate purchases or
disposals of the assets.
(3) The provisions of subparagraph (1) shall apply, with any necessary
modifications, to the sale or purchase of the relevant interest in an asset to-
gether with any other asset or relevant interest in any other asset.
Reference to asset to include part of an asset
12.  Any reference in this part to an asset shall be construed, whenever
necessary, to include reference to a part of an asset or an undivided part of the
asset in the case of joint interests, and when so construed, any necessary
apportionment shall be made as may, in the opinion of the relevant tax author-
ity, be just and reasonable.
Extension of application of "in use"
13.—(1) For the purpose of this part, an asset shall be deemed to be in
use during a period of temporary disuse.
(2) For the purpose of paragraphs 6 and 7 of this part where an asset
acquired for the purposes of a trade or business has not been used for the
trade or business carried on by the owner, the asset shall be deemed to be in
use, for the purposes of that trade or business on the date on which the ex-
penditure was incurred, provided that where an allowance has been made in
consequence of this subparagraph and the first use to which the asset is put is
not for the trade or business, additional assessments shall be made to counter-
act the benefit obtained from the giving of the allowance.
(3) The approval of the relevant tax authority shall be obtained for the
purpose of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.
Exclusion of certain expenditure
14. Under this part, the following shall not be treated as qualifying
