[PAGE 73]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  457
during each month and the concession rental payable annually in accordance
with the production sharing contract terms.
108.—(1) Cost oil shall be allocated to the contractor in such quantum
as shall generate an amount sufficient for the recovery of operating costs in oil
prospecting licences as defined in the production sharing contract and any oil
mining leases derived therefrom.
(2) All operating costs shall be recovered in US Dollars through cost oil
allocations in accordance with the terms of the production sharing contract.
109.  Tax oil shall be allocated to the Commission or the holder, in such
quantum as shall generate an amount equal to the actual petroleum profit tax
liability payable during each month.
110. Profit oil, being the balance of available crude oil after deducting
royalty oil, tax oil and cost oil, shall be allocated to each party in accordance
with the terms of the production sharing contract.
111.—(1) The holder shall pay all royalty, concession rentals and petro-
leum profits tax on behalf of itself and the contractor out of the allocated
royalty oil and tax oil.
(2) The Service shall issue separate tax receipts in the names of the
holder and the contractor for the respective amounts of petroleum profit tax
paid on behalf of the holder and contractor in accordance with the terms of the
production sharing contract.
112.  The chargeable tax on petroleum operations in the contract area
under the production sharing contracts shall be split between the holder and
the contractor in the same ratio as the split of profit oil as defined in the pro-
duction sharing contract between them.
113.—(1) The realisable price as defined in the production sharing con-
tract established by the holder in accordance with the provisions of the pro-
duction sharing contract, shall be used to determine the amount payable on
royalty and petroleum profits tax in respect of crude oil produced and lifted
under the production sharing contract.
(2) The parameters for new crude oil streams produced from the con-
tract area shall also be determined in accordance with the provisions of the
production sharing contract.
114. The holder shall make available to the contractor copies of the
receipts issued by the Service bearing the names of each party as defined in
the production sharing contract in accordance with each party's tax oil allocation
for the payment of petroleum profits tax under the provisions of the production
sharing contract.
Use of
realisable
price in
determining
royalty and
petroleum
profit tax in
respect of
crude oil
Submission
of receipts
Allocation of
profit oil
Payment
royalty
Chargeable
tax petro-
leum
operations
Allocation of
cost oil
Allocation of
tax oil
