[PAGE 39]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  423
where the compensation received together with the residual or scrap value
is —
(a) greater than the cost of the asset acquired in replacement of the lost
or destroyed asset, be deemed to make a chargeable gain ; and
(b) lower than the cost of the asset acquired in its replacement, be deemed,
for the purposes of the First Schedule to this Act, to have acquired an
additional asset for an amount equal to the cost of that new asset, less the
compensation together with the residual or scrap value.
(2) Except for the additional asset acquired under subsection (1)(b),
allowance to be claimed on the new asset for the purposes of the First Schedule
to this Act shall be limited to the residue of the old asset, if any.
44.—(1) Where a single bargain comprises two or more transactions
whereby assets are disposed of, those transactions shall be treated for the
purposes of computing chargeable gains as a single disposal.
(2) Where separate considerations are agreed or purported to be agreed
for any two or more transactions comprised in one bargain, whether transac-
tions whereby assets are disposed of or not, those considerations shall be
treated as altogether constituting an entire consideration for the transactions
and shall be apportionable between them.
(3) Where an apportionment under this section results in less considera-
tion being attributed to the chargeable asset than that agreed or purported to
be agreed, in the bargain, the separate considerations shall be the considera-
tion for which those assets are disposed of.
45.—(1) For the purposes of computing chargeable gains, unless the
context otherwise requires, market value, in relation to any asset, means the
price which the asset might reasonably be expected to fetch on a sale conducted
at arm's length, or in the open market.
(2) In estimating the market value of any asset in the case of a disposal,
no reduction shall be taken into account for cash or bulk discount.
(3) In determining the acquisition cost of any asset, where the actual
consideration paid by the acquirer is less than the market value, the assets
shall be deemed to have been acquired for the amount actually paid.
46. For the purposes of Chapter Two of this Act —
(a) the situation of rights or interests, other than by way of security, in or
over immovable property is that of the immovable property ;
(b) the situation of rights or interests, other than by way of security, in or
over tangible movable property is that of the tangible movable property ;
(c) a debt, secured or unsecured, is situated in Nigeria where the creditor
is resident in Nigeria, or has a permanent establishment in Nigeria to which
First
Schedule
First
Schedule
Bargains
comprising
two or more
transactions
Valuation at
market value
Location of
assets
