[PAGE 119]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  503
197.—(1) The following Orders are revoked —
(a) the Value Added Tax Act (Modification) Order 2021 ;
(b) Oil and Gas Companies (Tax Incentives, Exemptions, Remissions,
etc.) Order, S.I No. 21, 2024 ; and
(c) Oil and Gas Companies (Tax Incentives, Exemptions, Remissions,
etc.) Order, S.I No. 1, 2024 ;
(d) the Companies Income Tax (Significant Economic Presence) Order,
2020 is amended by deleting paragraph 2 ; and
(e) the Petroleum (Drilling and Production) Regulations, 1969 is amended
by deleting regulations 60B, 60C, 61(1), (2), (4), and 62.
198. Without prejudice to the provision of Section 6 of the Interpretation
Act —
(a) the repealed enactments specified in section 197 and the amended
enactments specified in section 198 of this Act shall not affect anything
done under the enactments ;
(b) a notice, guideline, rule, order, regulation, circular or other subsidiary
legislations made or issued under any provision of the repealed or amended
enactments by this Act, shall continue to be in force as if they had been
made or issued by the relevant authority or person under this Act except to
the extent that it is inconsistent with the provisions of this Act ;
(c)  an enforcement process or legal proceedings commenced or pend-
ing prior to the commencement of this Act, in connection with imposition of
tax, contravention or non-compliance with the repealed or amended
enactments, shall continue and be disposed of, as if it was commenced
under this Act ; and
(d) anything made or done, or having effect as if made or done, before
the date of commencement of this Act under any provision of the repealed
or amended enactments by the relevant tax authority, and having any con-
tinuing or resulting effect with respect to the taxation of a taxable person or
any matter connected, shall be treated as if it was done or performed by the
relevant tax authority under this Act.
199. The performance of the duties and obligations, as well as the exer-
cise of powers and rights conferred by this Act shall, to the extent not provided
in this Act, be in accordance with the provisions of the Nigeria Tax Adminis-
tration Act.
200.—(1) Subject to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,
this Act shall take precedence over any other law with regards to the imposi-
tion of tax, royalty, levy, surcharge on services and fossil fuel or any other tax,
and where the provisions of any other law is inconsistent with the provisions of
Exercise of
powers,
duties and
obligations
Conflict
with other
laws
Revocation
and
consequen-
tial amend-
ment of
subsidiary
legislation
Savings
provisions
