[PAGE 93]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  477
supply or such other person as may be appointed by the Service.
(4) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Service may direct any taxable
person who makes taxable supplies to adopt the use of electronic invoice,
provided that it gives a notice of, at least 30 days to the person.
153.—(1) A taxable person shall, on making taxable supplies under Chapter
Six of this Act, collect VAT at the rate specified in section 146 of this Act.
(2) The VAT collected by a taxable person under subsection (1) of this
section, shall be known as output VAT.
154—(1) Without prejudice to any provision of this Act or any other tax
law, the following persons shall collect or withhold VAT on taxable supplies
made to them and remit it to the Service within the time prescribed by this Act,
the Nigeria Tax Administration Act, or any regulation made pursuant
thereto —
(a) Federal, State, Local Government and their respective Ministries,
Departments or Agencies; or
(b) any other person appointed by the Service to collect or withhold VAT
for the purposes of this Part.
(2) The Service may direct a taxable person to whom taxable supplies is
made in Nigeria and issued an invoice on which VAT is not included, to self-
account for the VAT payable and remit it to the Service.
(3) The remission of the VAT under subsections (1) and (2) of this section,
shall be accompanied with a schedule showing the name, Tax ID and address
of the contractor or supplier, invoice number, gross amount of invoice, amount
of the VAT and the month to which the return relates.
(4) The VAT collected, withheld or self-accounted under this section
shall be remitted to the Service on or before the 14th day of the month imme-
diately following the month of the transaction or as may be prescribed by the
Service.
(5) A person having an obligation to collect VAT under Chapter Six of
this Act shall keep proper records, make appropriate returns and remittances,
and all provisions relating to compliance obligation in Chapter Six of this Act,
the Nigeria Tax Administration Act or related tax laws shall apply to such
person as though it is the taxable person.
155.—(1) A taxable person shall, not later than the due date for rendering
the relevant tax return prescribed by the Nigeria Tax Administration Act, where
the —
(a) output VAT exceeds the input VAT, remit the excess to the Service ;
or
Credit for
input tax and
remission of
VAT
Collection of
VAT by
taxable
person
Collection of
VAT by
persons
other than
the supplier
