[PAGE 165]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  549
SEVENTH SCHEDULE
 Sections 73(3), 87(2)
and 90(2)
PETROLEUM ROYALTY
PART I — ADMINISTRATION OF ROYALTIES
Royalties on petroleum production
1.—(1) The Service shall administer royalties payable in accordance
with the provision of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act.
(2) All production of petroleum, including production tests is liable to
royalty on a non-discriminatory basis, payable by the licensee or lessee.
Royalties to be paid in cash
2. Royalties shall be paid by the licensee or lessee in cash in accordance
with the Nigeria Tax Administration Act, based on the fiscal oil price and fiscal
gas price determined by the Commission, or realisable price determined in
accordance with section 113 of this Act in the case of production sharing
contract under Part III of Chapter Three of this Act.
Provision of monthly schedule to the Service
3. The Commission shall provide to the Service a monthly schedule of
production and chargeable volume by each company engaged in petroleum
operations determined for the field at the measurement points or deemed meas-
urement points, fiscal oil price and fiscal gas price determined for the field at
the measurement points, and other relevant information for the determination
of royalties.
PART II — DETERMINATION OF CHARGEABLE VOLUMES
AND PRICES FOR ROYALTIES
Measurement Point for the determination of production volumes
4. The measurement of crude oil, condensates, natural gas and natural
gas liquids, and the procedures for determining production and chargeable
volumes for royalties purposes shall be in accordance with the Seventh Sched-
ule to the Petroleum Industry Act and applicable regulations or guidelines  issued
by the Commission.
Determination of price for royalty
5. The fiscal oil price applicable to crude oil and condensates, and the
fiscal gas price applicable to natural gas and natural gas liquids for the field at
the measurement points shall be as determined by the Commission in accord-
ance with the Seventh Schedule to the Petroleum Industry Act and applicable
regulations or guidelines issued by the Commission.
