[PAGE 88]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  472
 2025  No. 7
or 10 times the annual minimum wage, whichever is higher, shall not be charge-
able with any duty under Chapter Five of this Act.
135.  The share capital of a company shall be charged with an ad val-
orem duty, as specified in the Ninth Schedule to this Act, of the amount of such
capital, or increase of capital, as the case may be.
136.—(1) The loan capital of a company shall be charged with ad val-
orem duty, as specified in the Ninth Schedule to this Act.
(2)  "Loan capital" means any debenture stock, other stock or funded
debt by whatever name known or any debt raised by any corporation, com-
pany or body of persons formed or established in Nigeria but does not include –
(a) an overdraft ;
(b) loan obtained for a period not exceeding twelve months ; and
(c) loan obtained for onward disbursement to any other person in an on
lending arrangement:
Provided that for the purpose of subsection (c), the beneficiary of the
disbursement shall be responsible to pay the duty as prescribed in the Ninth
Schedule to this Act.
137.  An instrument made for the purpose of issuing marketable securi-
ties by or on behalf of a company or body of persons, corporate or unincorpo-
rated, formed or established in Nigeria shall be subject to duty under Chapter
Five of this Act, whether the securities are issued in Nigeria or not.
138.—(1) Every appraisement or valuation carried out for the purpose
of ascertaining the value of a real property is subject to duty, which shall be
accounted for by the appraiser.
(2) For the purpose of Chapter Five of this Act, "appraiser" means any
person who values or appraises any estate or real property, or any interest,
whether in possession or not, in any estate or real property, for a fee.
                  PART III – MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
139.  The duplicate or counterpart of an instrument chargeable with duty
shall not be deemed duly stamped, unless it is stamped as an original instrument
or certified by the relevant tax authority that the full duty on the original
instrument has been paid.
140.  Where an instrument contains or relates to more than one transac-
tion or several distinct matters, each transaction or distinct matter shall be
charged to duty separately.
Duplicates
and
counterparts
Duty
relating to
one
instrument
covering
multiple
transactions
Ninth
Schedule
Marketable
security
Appraisem-
ents
Duty on
share
capital
Duty on
loan capital
Ninth
Schedule
Ninth
Schedule
