[PAGE 62]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  446
 2025  No. 7
gas price, whichever is lower, provided that the hydrocarbon liquids do not
exceed 100 barrels per million standard cubic feet.
(3) The gas production tax credit that can be recouped in any year shall
not exceed the tax payable on the field(s) for that year on that income, subject
to the payment of any minimum tax where applicable.
(4) Unrecouped tax credit in one year may be carried forward for a
maximum of 3 years.
(5) The fiscal gas price for calculating gas production tax credit and gas
production allowance shall be the same price used for determining royalties.
(6) The provisions of this section shall apply to oil mining leases and
petroleum mining leases.
(7) Where first gas production cannot be achieved due to force majeure,
such as natural disasters or acts of terrorism, the timelines and obligations
stipulated in subsection (1) of this section may be suspended, subject to ap-
proval by the Commission, until such time as the force majeure ceases to exist.
(8) The Commission shall certify the applicable hydrocarbon liquid ratios
for the purposes of ascertaining appropriate gas production tax credit or gas
production tax allowance.
(9) The incentives under this section shall not apply to any company that
has claimed Associated Gas Framework Agreement incentives for the same
Non-Associated Gas Greenfield project.
86.  Notwithstanding section 233(1) of the Petroleum Industry Act, a
provision made for decommissioning and abandonment fund shall not be
deductible for tax purposes, except —
(a) the licensee or lessee deposit a minimum of 15% of the decommissioning
and abandonment fund with a Nigerian Bank, in the form of an escrow
account accessible by the Commission or Authority ; and
(b) the Nigerian bank shall be confirm the deposit.
87.—(1) This Part and the provisions of the Petroleum Industry Act
shall not apply to holders of an oil prospecting licence or oil mining lease who
do not enter into a conversion contract until the termination or expiration of the
respective oil prospecting licence or oil mining lease.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, the provisions of
Chapter Two of this Act and paragraph 6 of the Seventh Schedule to the
Petroleum Industry Act shall apply to licences and leases awarded to indigenous
Nigerian companies on a sole risk basis under the Petroleum Act, on which the
Provision
Relating to
Decommis-
sioning and
Abandon-
ment of
Funds
General
application
of this Part
and other
matters
Act No. 6,
2021
Act No. 6,
2021
