[PAGE 91]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  475
payment becomes due or is received or an invoice relating to only that
payment is issued, whichever occurs first; and
(c) where a taxable supply is made under an instalment credit agreement,
the supply shall be deemed to take place at the time the taxable supply is
delivered or the time any payment of consideration is received by the sup-
plier in respect of the supply, whichever occurs first.
147.  Subject to the provisions of Part IX of this Chapter, VAT shall be
charged on the value of all taxable supplies at the rate of 7.5%.
148—(1) For the purposes of Chapter Six of this Act, the value of taxable
supplies shall be determined as follows, where the supply is —
(a) for a money consideration, its value shall be the amount which with
the addition of the VAT chargeable is equal to the consideration ; and
(b) not for a money consideration, the value of the supply shall be its
market value.
(2) Where a taxable supply is not the only transaction to which a consid-
eration relates, the supply shall be the part of the consideration as is properly
attributable to it.
(3) For the purposes of Chapter Six of this Act, the market value of a
taxable supply, where it is not for money consideration, or for a supply between
connected persons, shall be the money consideration as may be payable by a
person in a transaction at arm's length.
149.  The value of imported taxable supply for the purposes of Chapter
Six of this Act shall be the amount which is equal to the price of the taxable
supply imported plus —
(a) taxes, duties and other charges levied either outside or by reason of
importation into Nigeria, other than VAT imposed under this Act ; and
(b) costs by way of commission, parking, transport and insurance up to
the port or point of entry.
150.—(1) A non-resident person who makes taxable supplies to Nigeria
shall register for tax and include VAT on its invoice for all taxable supplies.
(2) Where a non-resident person is making taxable supplies from outside
Nigeria to persons in Nigeria, the taxable person to whom the supply is made
in Nigeria shall withhold the VAT due on the supply and remit it to the Service.
(3) The Service may, by notice, appoint any person, including a non-
resident supplier of taxable supplies, to collect the VAT and remit it to the
Service.
(4) Where a person appointed under subsection (3) has made a taxable
supply to a taxable person in Nigeria, the taxable person shall not have the
Value of
imported
goods
Rate of VAT
Value of
taxable
supplies
Taxable
supply of
non-
residents
