[PAGE 107]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  491
179.—(1) All the relevant provisions of Chapter Two of this Act and the
Nigeria Tax Administration Act, including the filing of returns, shall apply to a
company granted economic development incentive status during the priority
period.
(2) The company shall provide evidence of compliance with the mini-
mum qualifying criteria specified in sections 168 and 169, and the Tenth Schedule
to this Act, accompanied with the annual income tax returns.
180.—(1) The Service may, not later than six years after the cancella-
tion of an economic development incentive certificate, withdraw or discounte-
nance an economic development tax credit granted under this part, except in
the case of fraud where there is no limit to the time for the withdrawal of the
economic development tax credit.
(2) Where an economic development tax credit is withdrawn or discoun-
tenanced under subsection (1), the Service shall, within the time prescribed
under the Nigeria Tax Administration Act, issue notice of additional assess-
ment to the company.
181.—(1) For the purposes of Chapter Two of this Act, the trade of a
company which operates a plantation to which an economic development in-
centive certificate has been issued shall be deemed to have commenced on
the date when the planting first reaches commercial production.
(2) Expenditure incurred on the maintenance of a planted area up to the
date specified in subsection (1) of this section is deemed to have brought an
asset into existence, and the expenditure shall be qualifying plantation
expenditure on the date the business commenced, for the purposes of Part I of
the First Schedule to this Act.
182.—(1) Any company granted economic development tax credit, shall
not benefit from a similar tax incentive under this Act or any other law.
(2) Any company granted an incentive under the Industrial Development
(Income Tax Relief) Act shall continue to enjoy the reliefs applicable under the
Act for the unexpired period as at the commencement of this Act.
(3) Where a company has been granted an economic development in-
centive under this Act prior to the applicable sunset for the sector or activity,
the company shall continue to enjoy the reliefs applicable under this Chapter
for the unexpired period as specified under sections 178 and 179 of this Act.
183. In this Part —
 "Minister" means Minister charged with the responsibility for Industry,
Trade and Investment ;
"Relevant authority" means the Industrial Inspectorate Department of
the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment ; and
Exclusion
from other
reliefs and
transition
arrangements
Provisions
for planta-
tion industry
First
Schedule
Returns of
profits
Cancellation
or discounte-
nance of
economic
development
tax credit
Interpreta-
tion
