[PAGE 29]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  413
reduction of assessment or repayment of tax under this subsection.
(4) In the case of a deceased individual, where the personal representa-
tive after death, receives or pays any sum which would have been included in
or deducted from the gains or profits from the trade, business, profession or
vocation carried on prior to death, that sum shall be deemed for all purposes of
this Act to have been received or paid by the deceased, on the last day prior to
the death.
25.  An individual carrying on a trade, business, profession or vocation,
shall not be treated as having commenced or ceased to do so solely by reason
of a change in the territory in which the individual is resident from one year to
another, or by reason of becoming or ceasing to be a partner in a partnership if
the nature of the trade carried on by that partnership is the same as that
carried on before or after the individual became or ceased to be a partner.
26. —(1) With respect to income from an employment or pension, the
assessable income of an individual shall be the amount of the income of the
year of assessment.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) of this section, income from an
employment shall be deemed to arise from day to day except to the extent that
it is derived from any bonus, commission or allowance payable on one occa-
sion only or at intervals exceeding one month, and to that extent it shall be
deemed to be income —
(a) of the day on which it is paid ; or
(b) where it is paid after the cessation of the employment, of the last day
of the employment including any terminal benefit arising therefrom.
(3) With respect to disposal of a chargeable asset, the assessable income
of an individual shall be the amount of the chargeable gains accruing from
assets disposed during the year immediately preceding the year of assessment,
except for chargeable gains accruing from the disposal of chargeable assets
used in the individual's trade, business, profession or vocation, which shall be
those disposed during the year immediately preceding the year of assessment.
(4) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, the assessable
income of a trustee, or of an executor of the estate of a deceased individual, or
of a beneficiary of a trust or estate for any year of assessment shall be the
income of that person for the year preceding that year of assessment as
determined under the provisions of the Fifth Schedule to this Act.
Continuity
of trades
Basis for
computing
assessable
income
Fifth
Schedule
