[PAGE 16]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  400
 2025  No. 7
(c) the rate applied for the deduction at source, being the rate prescribed
by Nigeria Tax Administration Act; and
(d) the net amount after the deduction at source.
(4) For the purposes of this section, the Service may give notice to any
company, which it has reason to believe is controlled by not more than five
individuals, requiring it to supply, within such time as contained in such notice,
full particulars of its shareholders.
(5) In the case of a limited liability partnership, all the profits of the
partnership shall be deemed as distributed, and taxable income, proportion-
ately, in the hands of the respective partners.
(6) Any direction by the Service under this section with respect to the
profits of any accounting period of a company shall be made not later than
three years after the receipt by the Service of the duly audited accounts of the
company for that period.
(7) A company in respect of which a direction is made under this section,
shall have a right of appeal in accordance with Chapter Four of Nigeria Tax
Administration Act.
11.—(1) Where two or more companies carry out a trade or business in
a partnership, joint venture or a similar arrangement in Nigeria, any income or
profit arising therefrom shall constitute a source of profits and each company's
share shall be taxed separately.
(2) Where any of the companies in the partnership is a non-resident, its
share of income or profit from the partnership is chargeable to tax under this
Act.
(3) In the case of partnership carried on in a country other than Nigeria,
the partner that is taxable in Nigeria shall include its share of revenue and cost,
or profits in its assessable profits for the relevant year of assessment, and shall
supply to the tax authority, particulars of the determination of the revenue and
cost, or profit, with necessary adjustments made in accordance with the relevant
provisions of Chapter Two of this Act.
(4) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any partnership engaged
in petroleum operations under Chapter Three of this Act.
12. The income, gains or profits of an individual who is a resident of
Nigeria are deemed to accrue in Nigeria and are chargeable to tax in Nigeria
wherever they arise, and whether or not the income, profits or gains have been
brought into or received in Nigeria.
13.—(1) The income, gain or profit from an employment shall be deemed
to be derived from Nigeria where —
Resident
individual
Partnership
of companies
Employment
income
