[PAGE 87]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025  No. 7        A  471
(b) weekly, monthly or at any other stated periods, an order for the pay-
ment by a person at any time after the date thereof of any sum of money,
and sent or delivered by the person making the same to the person by whom
the payment is to be made and not to the person to whom the payment is to
be made, or to any person on his behalf.
128.—(1) For the purposes of Chapter Five of this Act, "promissory
note" includes any document or writing, except a bank note, containing a promise
to pay any sum of money.
(2) A note promising the payment of any sum of money out of any par-
ticular fund which may or may not be available, or upon any condition or
contingency which may or may not be performed or happen, shall be deemed
a promissory note for that sum of money.
129.—(1) The provisions of Chapter Five of this Act as to contract
notes shall apply to any contract under which an option is given or taken to
purchase or sell any stock or marketable security at a future time at a certain
price, as it applies to the sale or purchase of any stock or marketable security.
(2) Where under the contract in subsection (1) of this section, a double
option is given or taken, the contract shall be deemed to be a separate contract
in respect of each option.
130.  Every transfer of interest or rights in real property shall be subject
to duty under this section as conveyance on sale.
131.  Where a property is conveyed to a person in consideration, wholly
or in part, of a debt due to the person, the debt shall be deemed the considera-
tion in respect of which the conveyance is chargeable with ad valorem duty.
132.  An agreement for the transfer of mineral assets of any kind what-
soever or interest therein, shall be charged with duty and payable as specified
in the Ninth Schedule to this Act.
133.  Where there is an exchange of a real property for another, any
consideration exceeding N1,000,000 or a sum equal to the annual national
minimum wage, whichever is higher, shall be charged to duty with the same ad
valorem duty as a conveyance on sale.
134.  An agreement for a lease, with respect to the letting of land or
building, shall be subject to duty on grant of a lease or sublease, or the assign-
ment of a lease, and shall be charged with the same duty as if it were an actual
lease made for the term and consideration mentioned in the agreement, pro-
vided that lease agreements for which the annual value is less than N10,000,000
Conveyance
on Sale
Conveyance
in
consideration
of a debt
Duty on
transfer of
mineral
assets
Provisions
as to
exchange
Leases
Ninth
Schedule
Sale or
purchase of
options
Promissory
Note
