[PAGE 42]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
A  426
 2025  No. 7
Principal
private
residences
50.—(1) Sums not exceeding  N50,000,000 obtained by way of compen-
sation or damages for any wrong or injury suffered by an individual in his
person or in his profession or vocation, including compensation for loss of
office or employment, wrong or injury for libel, slander or enticement shall not
be chargeable gains.
(2) Where the sum exceeds N50,000,000, only the excess amount shall
constitute a chargeable gain.
(3) For the purposes of subsection (1) and (2) of this section, any person
who pays compensation for loss of office or employment to an individual is
required, at the point of payment of such compensation, to deduct and remit
the tax due under this section to the relevant tax authority.
(4) The tax so deducted shall be remitted within the time specified under
the Pay-As-You-Earn or Deduction of Tax at Source Regulations issued the
Nigeria Tax Administration Act.
51.—(1) The gains accruing to an individual are exempt from tax in
respect of the disposal of, or an interest in —
(a) a dwelling-house or part of such dwelling-house ; and
(b) land, other than land used for commercial purposes, immediately
adjoining the dwelling house up to a maximum of one acre.
(2) The exemption under this section shall be enjoyed once in the lifetime
of an individual.
(3) The consideration shall be apportioned where a person disposes of
only a part of a dwelling-house or a house used partly as dwelling place and
partly for carrying out a trade, business, profession or vocation.
52.—(1) A gain accruing on a disposal of an asset which is tangible
movable property being personal chattels of an individual shall not be a
chargeable gain if the total amount or value of the consideration for the disposal
does not, in a period of assessment, exceed N5,000,000 or three times the
annual national minimum wage, whichever is higher.
(2) Where two or more assets, whether or not forming part of a set of
articles, are disposed by a person to the same person or to persons acting in
concert or to connected persons, whether on the same or different occasions,
the two or more transactions shall be treated as a single transaction disposing
of a single asset, but with any apportionments, where necessary.
(3) Where the disposal is part of a right or interest in, or over tangible
movable property, subsection (1) of this section shall apply in relation to the
asset as a whole, taking the consideration as including the market value of
what remains undisposed of, in addition to the actual consideration.
(4) The provisions of this section shall apply to a gain accruing on a
disposal of two or more assets, not necessarily forming part of a set of articles
Personal
chattels
Personal
injury
