[PAGE 69]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025 No. 7
A 455
to the amount obtained by multiplying the number of barrels of that CIUde oil
determined at the measurement point by the fiscal oil price per barrel.
(3) For the purpose of this .se_gti?n, the totglry9jye of the chargeable oi!
for a company shall be the sum otthe multiplicatio;ls of volume aM fiscal oil
price as established by the Commission at the measurement poInt
' 
(4) The whole ofany additional chargeable tax for crude oil paYable bY a
company under this section for any accounting period shall be paYapl?
concurrently with the final instalment of the chargeable tax paYable for that
period.
(5) Where there is no fiscal oil price established for a crude oil strean}
the C=mission shan esubhsh fiscal price hr such stream and the fiscal oil
price per barrel established shall bear a fair and reasonable relationship –
(a) to the established fiscal oil price of Nigeian cade oil s&cams of
comparable quality and specific mvity ; or
(b) where there are no such Nigerian crude oil streams of cofnpar?ble
quIity and specific g-avhy, it shall kar a fair and reasonable relationshp t:
the officia1 selling prices at main international tfading centres fof crude oil
of comparable qL-hty and gravity! due regard being had in either case to
freight -differentials and other relevant factors.
(6) Notwithstandng any oha provision in this Part, where a padicular
comp;;yTs chmgeable oil is exported from Nigeria or sold locally by another
com;an; that ci,lrgeable oil for the purpose of this Part shall be deemed to be
exported from Nigeria or sold by that particular companY'
IOI. (1) A person, other than a company, who engages in peaoleuTn
opemti016 either on his own account or jointly with any other Frson g in
;au„,hip 
with ,.y .th„ 
p„„„, 
with ' 'i'W t' sharing the profits arising
from those operations commits an offence.
Partnership
(2) Where the person referTed to in subsection (1) has benefitte(! &om
SIr::::== ===== IN;::ITIT==:If;;t:::ne;?tTpiEL::=nbJ:re::
geria TaxAdmirisaation Act, 2025.
(3) Where two or more companies are engaged in petloleum OTTatlon?
either- h parmership9 in a joint venture or in concert under TY schemf y
;Tangemintl the Service amy nuke regulations for the ascenainment of the
Ux to be charged and assessed on each companY so engaged'
(4) Such regulations maY –
(a) mdlify the provision of ths Part in such manner as the Service maY
deem fit ;
(b) provide for the apportionment of anY profits, outgolngS’ expenses’
