[PAGE 153]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025 No. 7
A 539
Second Schedule
Section 60
EXPORT PROCESSRqG AND FREE TRADE ZONE ENTITIES
1. This schedule applies to the export processing and free trade zones,
(the zones) and approved export processing and free trade zone entities) (the
entities).
2. In this Schedule –
ra) ''exp01't processIng :one entity" means an approved and licensed
enterprise under the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Act Cap. Nl 07, Laws
of the Federation of Nigeria, 2(W 
; and
rb) "export free zone entity" means an approved and licensed enter-
prise under Oil and Gas Free Zones Authority Act Cap. 05, Laws of the
Federation ofNigeria, 20(A.
3. Subject to paragraph (4) of this Schedule and the provisions of Section
57, the profits of an export processing zone entitY are fulIY exempt from tax
where –
(a) its total sales arise from the export of goods or services, or serve as
inputs into goods or services exclusively for export ; and
(b) not more than 25% of its sales arise from the sale of goods or serv-
ices to the customs territory in Nigeria.
4. Where9 in a year of assessments more than 25% of the sales of an
export processing zone entity arise from the sale of goods or sewices in the
customs territory, tax shan accrue in Nigeria on the profits of the entItY in
respect of its total sales to the custom terrItory.
5. Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 3(ii) of this Schedule, the
profits of an export processing zone entity shall be fully subject to tax effectiye
from 1 January 2028, in respect of its sales to the customs territorY in Nigen%
regardless of the percentage of the sales:
Provided that the President may, by order published in the Omcial Ga-
zette. extend the date at which an export processing or export hee zone
entity shall be fully subject to tax, in respect of its sales to the customs
territory in Nigeria, to a date not later than 10 years from the commence-
ment of this Act.
6. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Schedule or anY other law9 an
export processing or ex–port free zone entity shall comply with all relevarrt
pr:visiins of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act, 2025, including those requir-
lng
(a) wgistratron 
;
