[PAGE 72]

A 458
2025 No. 7
Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
CtwWable
tax petro-
leum
operahons
Use of
rmliable
1)ncc in
det„mi„i.g
royalty and
petroleum
Submission
of receipts
Adaptation
of laws
Cap. PIO,
LFN, 2024
Review of
the
production
sharing
contract
Administra-
tion of
royalties
Interpreta-
tion
and taxoil.
(2) The Service shall issue separate tax receipts h the names of the
hojder and the contractor for the respective amounts of petroleum profit tax
paid on behalf of the holder and contractor in a„.cordanceLith the teas of th;
production sharing contract.
113. The chargeable tax on petroleum operations in the contract area
under the production sharing contracts shaH b; split between the holder ii
the Eontract?r in the same ratio as the split of profit oil as defined in the pro
duction sharing contract between them.
114' {1) The mahsable price as defIned in the production sharing con_
tlact.establisjed by the holder in accordance with the provisions of the pro_
duction sharing contract, shall be used to determine the amount payabl; on
roYaltY and Fholeum profits tax in respect of crude oil produced and lifted
under the production sharing contract.
(2) The parameters for new crude oil streams produced from the cnn_
tract area shall also be deterurined in accordan(n with the pmvisions of the
pr(xluction sharing contract.
115' The holder shall nuke available to the conaactormpies oftheruxipts
lssued bY the Service bearing the names of each party as de6ned in the
emeuction sharing contract in accordance with each party's tax oil allocation
fortjepaWnt 
ofpetroleum profits tax under the provision of the pnxju(..don
sharing contract.
116. The mle%at provisions of an existing laws1 including the Peaolem1
Act and Part IIofChapter Three of this Act shall be read with such modification
as to bnng them into confornity with the provisions of tIA Part.
117' The Minister charged with responsibility hr nmtters relating to
Fboleum shall ca.use the Cornrrission to cai R)ra Mew ofpmducdoi–sha
contracts every eight years. 
- 
e
PART IV – MISC£I,I ANEOUS PROVISIONS
118. (1 ) The Service shall administer royalties payable under tMs Act in
accordance with the provisions of the Nigeria Tax Aim'injsMtion iit:'20;;:
_ 
q) yotwithstanding any other provision of ths Act and any other law the
Con}mission 
shajl account for all royalties due within Me ten_y'ear peIlod i=
andiateIY preceding the commencement of this Act and he Se;vice shan have
the authoritY to ver{fY the records provided.
119. In this Part –
