[PAGE 137]

&?b+::
+
Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025 No. 7
A 523
Exclusion of certain expenditure
14. Under this Part, the following shall not be treated as qualifying ex-
penditure – 
#TV 
$ ; -'’
(a) expenditure allowed for deduction under section 20 of this Act ; and
(b) excess amount incurred on assets acquired in foreign currencY and
paid for with foreign currency obtained from the unofficial foreign exchange
market at a rate above the prevailing official market rate on the date of the
acqursrtron.
Application to leases
15. (1) Where in a basis period! the owner of an asset leases the asset to
another person under an operating lease, the provisions of this Part shall appIY?
as though such expenditure were incurred for the purpose of a bade or busi-
ness carried on by the owner or lesson
(2) Where an asset is acquired for use by a hirer or lessee under a hire
purchase or fmance lease contract for the purpose of a trade or business
;arried on by such hirer or lessee, the hirer or lessee shall be deemed to be the
owner of the asset and the provisions of this Part shall apply to the hirer or
!esseep to the exclusion of the hiree or lessor under the contract.
(3) For the purposes of this paragJaph in relation to the trade or business,
the basis period for any year of assessment shall be taken to be the year
inunediately preceding that year of assessment.
Asset used or expenditMre incurred partly for the purposes of a ttade
or business
16. (1) Where the owner of an asset partly uses the asset for a trade or
business, the allowance computed in accordance with the pn)visions of thIS
Part, shan, as may be reasonable, be apportioned to the trade or business.
(2) Where the relevant tax authority is of the opinion that the basis of
apportionment is not just and reasonable, having regard to all the circumstances
and to the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the relevant tax authoritY
shall make necessary adjustments as may be deemed fit.
Disposal without change of ownership
17. Where an asset in respect of which qualifying expenditure has been
incurred is disposed in such circumstances that the owner retains ownership,
for the pwposbs of determining the amount of capital allowance, the owner
shall be deemed to have bougH the asset immediately after the disposal for a
price equal to the residue of the qualifYing expendituTe at the date of the dis-
posal.
