[PAGE 61]

Nigeria TaI Act, 2025 
2025 No. 7
(9) The incentives tulder this section shall not apply to anY companY that
has claimed Associated Gas Framework Agreement incentives for the same
Non_Associated Gas Greenfield project.
a;
8
86. Notwithstanding section 233(1) of the Petroleum IndustrY Act 
a
provision made for decommissioning and abandonment fund shall not be de-
ductible for tax purposes, except –
(a) the licensee or lessee deposit a minhnumof30% ofthe decommissioning
and ’abandonment fund with a Nigerian Bank in the form of an escrow
account accessible by the Commission or AuthoritY; and
(b) the Nigerian bank is accredited in accordance with the uiteda foT
accreditation for participation in the management of the Rmt determined
by the Central Bank of Nigeria in collaboration with the Service-
87. (1) This Part and the provisions of the Petroleum IndustrY Act shall
not apply to holders of an oil prosFcting licence or oil mining leqwyho d9 Rot
end 'into a conversion contract until the termination or expiration of the
respective on prospecting licence or oil mining lease'
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the provisions of Chapter Two of an?
Act and paragraph 6 of the First Schedule to the Petroleum IndustrY Act shall
apply to licences and leases awarded to indigenous Nlgenan compnles Rn a
s;ie'ask basis under the Petroleum Act, on which the Government has
successfully exercised its back-in rights prior to the effective +Ie ef thE
PeUoleum lndustryAct9 but any renewal of an Oil mining lease shall be based
on the provisions of this Part and the Petroleum IndustrY Act'
(3) Tbe 6scal provisions of ths Part are the base terms that are applicable,
and th-e (,.blmssio i may under swdon 74(2) of Petrolewn krdustry Act conduct
hic:–ishg round where by the bid parameter b aHghermyalty, prqfit oil sharE
or other fiscal features in order to ensure that the Gcwenunent receives the hlll
rrnrket value for each block.
88. (1) Fiscal stabilisation sections contained in a production stwmg
conUact or other contracts entered into after the commencement of the Petro-
leum lndustry Act shall not be applicable to the fiscal pRwisions listed in this
Part1 regardless of whether the changes in fiscal provisions aaect the F?nhac-
;or fav iunbly or unfavourably9 provided such changes in fiscal prevision are
being made in a manner that is not discriminatorY 
to the Fkoletun 
industTY OF
the contractor.
(2) The respective fiscal provisions referred to in subsection (1) are –
@ generally applicable taxes> such as income tax, development levY'
value added tnxp stamp duties, and deduction of tax at source ;
(b) levies, taxes orpaWents to compIY with modern principles in resNet
ofenvironment7 labour laws, health and safety ; and
A 447
Provision
Relating to
Decommis-
sioning and
Abandon-
ment of
Funds
Act No. 6,
2021
General
application
of this Part
and other
matters
Act No. 6,
2021
Act No. 6,
2021
Fiscal
stabilisation
Act No. 6,
2021
