[PAGE 100]

A486
2025 No. 7
Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
(5) The NIPC shall recommend the application to the Minister, for ap-
proval or otherwise) including the projected tax expenditure impact report in its
recommendation.
(6) The Minister, acting on the recommendation of the NIPC, may rec-
ommend the application to the President for approval.
(7) An economic development incentive certificate shall not be issued to
a company without the approval of the President.
(8) The NIPC shall submit an annual report of the list of sectors and
companies that have benefited under this Part to the Minister who shall9 not
later than 30 daYs! present a copy of the report to the President and the Na-
tional Economic Council.
Approval of
application
169. (1 ) A company whose application has been approved in line with
sect.lon 168 of this Act, shall be issued an economic development incentive
certificate.
Tenth
Schedule
(2) Where a sector is removed from the Tenth Schedule to this Act _
(a) economic development incentive certificate shall not be issued to a
companY in relation to that sector with respect to any pending application
made under section 168 of this Act ; and
(b) a company issued an econondc development incentive certificate
before the removal shall exhaust its unexpired incentive period only.
Terms of
economic
development
rnccntlve
certificate
170' (1) EverY economic development incentive certificate shall be in
accordance with the terms and conditions stipulated in this Part.
(2) An economic development incentive certificate shall specify –
{a) conditions of the certificate ; and
a?). anY permissible by-product that may be produced by the company in
addItion.to the prioritY product and the proportion of the permissible by_
product in relation to the prioritY product, either in quantity or in value or
both
_ 
(3) Where an application for economic development in1.=ntive certificate
jor a proposed CQmpanY has been approved, its promoters shall incorporate
the company, not later than thee months after tie date ofnotific;tioi'of 
thE
approval.
(4) An economic development incentive certificate to be issued to a
:omlpanY !o which subsection (3) relates shall be issued only after the company
hT bee: jnqorporated and the cenincate shall be effective from the compa'_
ny's production day. 
- –-–-
(5) in the case of an existing companys the NIPC shall, not later than 30
