[PAGE 97]

fF'':+-n:+
Nigeria Tax Icc 2025
2025 No. 7
A483
disengagement is voluntary or not.
"oMer rankn has the meaning assigped tO it by the Armed Forces Pen-
sions Act.
Cap. A23,
LEN 2004
npersonat emoluments" means wages or salaries and includes allowances,
benefits in kind, gratuities, superannuation or Fnsion sc Innes and anY other
income derived solely by reason of employment as other rank.
164. (1) Subject to the provisions of this section and notwithstmp jng
anything contained in section 20 of this Acts for the pwposes ofa?edam IT
the profits or loss of any companY for anY period Rom anY soup,e chugeabl:
witita;-Llder 
Chapter'Two if this Act there shall be deducted the amount of
any donation made for that period bY that companY to anY had’ bodY OF
institution in Nigeria to which this section applles-
Deductible
donations
comp£yIiT::IIfe::i:===c&i;==! StISleiLa:rIfFha:FoR:d;ILI
pei id notwithMlding 
that the donation is of a revenue or capital nature
(3) THs section shall apply to donations made to –
(a) public funds ;
(b) sbtutory bodies or institutrons ;
(C) rehgjot69 clwitable, educational and scientific insdtutions9 established
in Nigeria 
;
(d) bodies recogFised under the Diplomatic Immunities and Pdvileges
Act; or
(e) any pandemic, natural disaster or other publlc emergencY uHerven-
tions.
Cap. D9,
LFN, 2004
(4) A company making a deduction for a donation shall provide requisite
dw11ie’at evid;ncilg the d8nation to the relevant tax authority'
fo r eIIg )y:: :: :s: :!!=c::in;loa :7Bn:ltl :=SJO= c=:::==y;i::11:Ie 
:: 
Ep Ho;=e:} :::
profit -b&fore tax of that conpany for that year'
(6) in the case of a donation other than in cash, the vllue for the purrse
of this section shall be the lower of the amlat value at the tIne of the donahon
or the consideration paid for the item wInn it was acWina
165. (1)NotwittuUnding anytl£ng contained in section 20 of this Act' .foi
research and development.
Deduction
for research
and
development
(2) Th, d,du,ti,n 
to be allowed t. a cclmpanY under subsection (1) fQr
