[PAGE 144]

A 530
2025 No. 7
Nigeria Tm Act, 2025
(ii the amount claimable in respect of the residue of the old asset) and
(ii) full allowance in respect of the additional asset acquired9 being the
amount with which the cost of that new asset acquired exceeds-the
compensation together with the residual or scrap value.
Part of an asset
9. Any reference in this Part to any asset shall be construed whenever
necessary, to include a reference to a pan of an asset or an undivided part of
the ass.et in the case of joint interests, and when so construed) any necessary
apportlonment shall be made in a manner, which in the opinion of the Service.
is just and reasonable.
Apportionment
10'. ( 1 ) Any reference in this Part to the disposal, sale or purchase of any
asset or interest includes a reference to the disposal? sale or purchase of tha t
asset, together with any associated asset9 whether or not quaiifying expendi_
tun has been incurred on such associated asset.
(2) Where an asset is disposed, sold, or purchased together with another
: Frilu : : : 
1 : :: T: : Ir: t =]:h ::i t0==y : S :e: t ti: II: : :s;h : np Jr: : : : sTF:TIT;IT : :
the value of, or the price paid for the assets.
(3). For the purpose of subparagraph (2)9 assets or interest purchased or
disp.sed in one bargain shall be deemed to be purchased or disposed together7
1:otwlthstanding that separate prices are or purport to be agreed for each of
Pe assets’ or that there are or pUFport to be separate purchases or disposals of
the assets.
(.4) The provisions of subparagraph (2) shall apply, with modifications, to
the sale or purchase of the relevant interest in an; asset together ;itiln;
other asseT or relevant interest in that other assets pAdded th; the pro;isio=
for app'?aionm?nt in this paragaph shall not apply in the sale .r disp'),a1 of
concessions or Interest in a part of the asset.
Exclusion of certain expenditure
11 ' Where anY c9mpanY has incurTed expenditure which is allowed to be
deducted under any plovision of thi, A,t, ,the, th,n a p,.,i,io„ 
.f thi, Pa,t.
such expenditure shall not be treated as qualifying expe'nditure: - –- –--- - -- ”
Asset used OF expenditUFe incurred pclnb for the purpose of petroleum
operatIons
0 r b 0 t h i } it ! ! ! I T: ::= =E:cgJ : = :i: iinioP: thi= iT;L::==:it ::a: IP:: == T ::either
(a) owner of the asset has incurred in respect of the asset a qLuhfying
