[PAGE 93]

NigerIa Tax act, 2025 
2025 No' 7
157. The provisions of section 190 of this Act shall appIY in respect pf
sale or transfer of trade) business, profession or vocation carried on in Nigena-
158. (1) A taxable person making a taxable suppIY shall implemqntjhe
fiscalisadon system deployed by the Service in accordance with Nigeria Tax
Administration Act, 2025.
(2) The 6scalisatiwl system maY include 6scal equipment a?nsisjil}g of
ele(..tronic devices, software solutions or a communication SYstem involvlng a
secured network, or any such combination of tIn compnents for electromc
invoicing and data tranifer as the Service any prescribe or deploy
A 479
Business
sold out
Fiscalisatior
of supplies
for VAT
CnArrER SEVEN
SURCHARGE
159. A swchaqge is imposed at 5% on chargeable fossil fuel products
p„3„id„d,rp,odu„.,Jk,Nig,ri,, 
,nd ,h,U tB ,ollected at the time a chargeable
transaction occurs.
ImpositIon
ofsurcharge
160. ( 1) For the purpose of imposing surcharge on fossil fuel product, the
chargeable transaction shall be the suPPIY, sale or paYment whictnver occurs
first
CharWablc
Uansaction
and base for
swch We
(2) Surcharge shan be computed based on the retail price of all charge-
able fossil fuel products.
161. (1) The Minister may by an order issued in the Offici fl Gazette
indic;t: = 
’eff;cdve date of c-onunencement of the administration of the
su.chaIBe on fossil nrel products under this Chapter'
Administra-
tion of
swcharEe
(2) The Service shall adninister and collect the surcharge on a monthIY
basis? and may issue regulations for its administration'
162. (1) The surcharge under this Chapter shall not appIY to the following
fossil hId products –
Exemption
Born
surcharge
(a) clean or renewable energy products
(b) household kerosene ;
(c) cooking gas ; and
(d) compressed natural gas (CNG)-
(2) For the purpose of this section, "clean or renewable enefgY" means
enerJf Fr,m ,iIi 
Ji„d7 hyd„,p.w„I 
g'oth'n'Ml ” P!''t and anim:I Waste'
whicT{are naturally rq>lenishing, produce little or no environmental plluhon or
emissions) and do not deplete over tIme.
greenhouse gas
