[PAGE 151]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025 No. 7
A 537
(3) The provisions of subparagBph (1) shall apply, with any necessarY
modifications, to the sale or purchase of the relevant interest in an asset to-
gether with any other asset or relevant interest in any other asset.
Extension of application of "in use"
12. (1) For the purposes of this Part, an asset shall be deemed to be in
use during a period of temporary disuse.
(2) For the purposes of paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of this Part where an asset
acquired for the purposes of petroleum operations has not been used for the
petroleum operations carried on by the owner, the asset shall be deemed to be
in use hr the purposes of that petroleum operations on the date on which the
expenditure was incurred, provided that where an allowance has been made in
consequence of this subparagraph and the first use to which the asset is put is
not for the petroleum operations, additional assessments shall be made to coun-
teract the benefit obtained from the giving of the allowance
(3) The approval of the Service shall be obtained for the purpose of subparagaph (2).
Exclusion of certain expenditure
13. (1) Where any company has incurred expenditure which is allowed to be deducted
under any provision of this Act, other than a provision of this PaR, such expenditure shall not
be treated as qualifying expenditure.
(2) Where any company has incurred expenditure on any ocean-going oil tanker pIYing
between Nigeria and any other territory, that expenditure shall not be treated as qualifYing
expenditure for the purpose of this Part
Asset used or expenditure incurred partly for the purpose of petroleum opetations
14. ( 1 ) The following provisions of this paragraph shall appIY where? either or both of
the following conditions apply with respect to any asset –
(a) the owner of the asset has incurTed in respect thereof qualiBing expenditure paTdY
for the purposes of petroleum operations carried on bY him and partIY for other purposes
; or
rb) the asset in respect of which qualifying expenditure has been incurred bY the
owner is used partly for the purposes of petroleum operations carded on bY such owner
and partly for other purposes.
(2) Any allowance which would be due if both expenditures were incurred wholly an!
exclu;ively 'for the purposes of the upstream petroleum operations applicable to CIUde oil
and if the asset were used wholly and exclusively for the purposes of such operations9 shall
be computed in accordance with the provisions of this Part.
(3) The allowances computed in accordance with subparagFaph (2) skull be heated’ as
