[PAGE 71]

NIgeria Tax Act, 2025 
2025 No• 7
,.y h,Id„ „ ,,.t„,tor 
from the paWent Qf any Qther tax, d11t: '" jevY
md 
by any Federal> State or Local Government, or Area Council Author-
105. Where a holder and a contractor have incIIned anY qualifIMg capl-
taI expenditure wholly and exclusiveIY for the puposes of pe holeun: OTra-
dons called out under the terms of a production sharing coneact in the deep
offshore or inland basin, the parties shall be entitled to investannt tax allow-
ance– it a rate of 50% of the qlulifying expenditure in accordance with the
provisions of existing appli,ablele$slation for the accouTdng KiDd in whid1
ihat asset was first used for the purposes of such OFrations'
106. Royalty shall be determined and PYable in accordance with the
provisions of the Seventh Schedule to this Act
Ity
107. Computation of estimated and fInal petroleum profit tax shall be
mde in the us aonars on the basis of the US dollar returns filed.
108. Royalty oil shall be allocated to the Commission or the holder) in
such quantum' as 'shan generate an amount equal to actual royalty payable
durin£ each month and the concession rental paYable annualIY in accofdance
with the production sharing contract terms'
109. (1) Cost oil shall be allocated to the contractor in such quanh?m e
,h,U g,.„,t, 
,. ,m.„.t ,„fB,i,.t 
for the recovery ?f operati11g G'SF in Qi!
;ros;Gang licences as defined in the production sharing con&act and any oil
;nining leases duived there&om.
(2) An .p„ati.g 
,„t, 
,hall b, ,ecovered in US D'nal' thrulgh cost QH
allocations in accordance with the terms of the production shadng conaact'
110. Tax oi1 shall be allocated to the Commission (x th tu)Idm, in_such
quantum as shaH generate an amount equal to the actual peaoleum profit tax
liability payable during each month.
111. Profit oil being the balance of available crude oil after deducting
royalty oil) UX oil and cost oil, shall be allocated to each pnV in accordance
with the terms of the production sharing conbact'
112. (1) ne holder shall pay an royaky9 concession nntals and pholew:
profit;'ta;;;b;halfofibelf 
aid the contractor out of the allocatedmyalq oil
A 457
Determlna-
tion of
investment
tax allow-
alloe
Royalty
payable in
respect of
deep oflshon
production
shahaB
contracts
Seventh
Schedule
Computaaon
ofpeaoleum
profits tax
Allocation of
royalty oil
Allocation of
cost oil
Allocation of
taxoil
Allocadon of
profit oil
Payment
royalty
