[PAGE 114]

A500
2025 No. 7
Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
shall be available for use by the buying trade or businessp
(iii) the trade or business -that sold or transferred the assets shall not
claim any part of the unutilised capital allowance pertaining to the asset
sold or transferred, and
av) the provisions of Pan VIII of Chapter Two of this Act as regards
chargeable gains shall not apply to the asset sold or trarnferred under
this paragraph.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection ( 1 )9 in the case of com_
panles engaged in upstream petroleum operations, where business restructur-
lng results in the formation of a new company and cessation of the old bush
ness, the accounting period of the company acquiring that trade or business
shall commence on –
fa) the date on which the sale or transfer of the trade or business to the
new company takes place ; or
(b) such date within the calendar month in which the sale or transfer
takes place, as may be elected by the company with the approval of the
Service, and end on 31 December of the same years provided that any gap
between the old and surviving business shall be treated as being part of the
new or survlvlng company.
(3) The Friod referred to in subsection (2), shall constitute "Accounting
Period" under Chapter Three of this Act. 
-
(4) The relevant tax authority shall be notified of any restructuring of a
trade, business, profession or vocation prior to commencing such arrangement.
(5) Reference to a trade or business in this section include references to
any part of the trade or business.
(6) VAT charged under Chapter Six of this Act shall not apply to business
restructuring carried out in accordance with this Act.
(7) Where a business or a part of the business9 which is capable of
separate operation is transferred as a going concern and the purchaser uses
the assets in the same kind of business, such transfer shall not be treated as a
suppIY of goods or services for the purposes of VAT, provided that the pun
chaser is registered in accordance with Part II of the Nigeria Tax AdninistIn_
tion Act, 2025 , or registerable as a result of the transfer.
191. (1) Where a relevant tax authority is ofthe opinion that a disposition
IS not given effect to, or that a transaction which reduces or may reduce the
amount of tax paYable, is artificial or fictitious, it may disregard any such dis_
posItIon or transaction, or direct that such adjustments be made with respect to
liability to tax as it considers appropriate! to counteract the reduction of liability
to tax and issue an assessment or additional assessment accordingly.
Artificial
transactIons
