[PAGE 148]

A 534
2025 No. 7
Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
leum operations carried on by it during any accounting period of the company,
and which has not been disposed, shall be deemed not to cease to be used for
the purposes of such operations where such company continues to carry on
such operations.
Relevant interest
3. (1) Under this Part, where an asset consists of a building9 structure or
works, the owner shall be taken to be the owner of the relevant interest in such
building, structure or works.
(2) "the relevant interest" under this Part, means, in relation to any
expenditure incurred on the construction of a building9 structure or worksl the
interest in such building, structure or works to which the company which in_
culled such expenditure was entitled.
(3> Where a company incurs qualifying building expenditure or qualifying
drilling expenditure on the construction of a building, structure or works9 the
companY is entitled to two or more interests, and one of those interests is an
lnterest which is revenionary on all the others, that interest shall be the relevant
interest for the purposes of this Part.
Petroleum investment allowance
4- (1) For the purposes of Part III of Chapter Three of this Act uld
subject to the provisions of this Part! where a company has incurred any quali_
fYingcqpital expnditure wholly and exclusively for the purposes of petroleum
OFra hons camed on bY it! there shall be due to that company, for the account-
ing period in which that asset was first used for the purposes of such opera_
dons, an allowance, in this Part called "Petroleum a?vesr/ne/zrJ//owa17 dH at
the appropriate rate set forth in Table I of this Part.
(2) For the purpose of Part in of Chapter Three of this Act, the Petroleum
Investment Allowance shall be added to the capital allowance computed under
paragraph 5 of this Part and shall be subject to the same rules under Part III of
Chapter Three of this Act.
Capital Allowance
5. (1) Where in any accounting period, a company owIdng an asset has
lncuned qualifYing expenditure wholly and exclusively for the purposes of
petroleum operations carried on by it, there shall be due to the company as
from the accounting period in which such expenditwe was incurred9 an allow_
ance at the appropriate rate specified in Table II of this Part.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (1)? there shall be
recorded in the capital allowance computation schedule for statistical pur-
poses until the asset is disposed, 1% of the qualifying capital expenditure,
which being a national amount, shall not increase or reduce the amount of
