[PAGE 115]

;}=;} ;iI
Nigeria Tax .Act, 2025
2025 No. 7
A 501
(2) The provisions relating to objections and appeals under Chapter Four
of ale Nigeria Tax Administration Act, Z025, shall apply to a direction made
under this section.
(3) For the purpose of this section –
(a) "disposition" includes any trust, grant, covenant, aWeement or ar-
rangement ; and
(b) a transaction between connected persons shall be deemed to be
artificial or fictitious if, in the opinion of the relevant tax authoritYp the
transaction has not been made at arm's length.
192. (1 ) A compary involved in an arTangement with a related party
shall –
Transactions
between
related
parties to be
at arm's
lengh
(a) ensure that the terms and conditions for which the arrangement is
carried out is at arm’s length; and
(b) report the arrangement in the form and manner prescribed bY the
relevant tax authority.
(2) Where9 in the opinion of a relevant tax authority, a company has
entered into an arrangement with a related party which is not at arm's length,
it may effect necessary adjustments to bring the arrangement in conformitY to
arm's length tern6 as provided under the Transfer Pricing ReWlations.
(3) The relevant tax authority any make IUles or regulations for the
administration 
of this section.
(4) For the purposes of this section –
(a) an "arrangement" includes any agreement, understanding, scheme,
financial or commercial relation, transaction or series of tlansactions ; and
(b) "arm’s length terms and conditions" means such terms and condi:
tions obtainable if the transaction or arrangement was between unrelated
parties dealing in comparative CIrcumstances.
193 . (1) Where a deduction has been allowed under the provisions of this
Act in respect of any liability or any expense incurnd and the liabilitY is waived
or released or such expense is refunded in whole or in pan9 the amount of that
liability or expense which is waived, released or refunded, shall be an income
on the day of the waiver, release or refund.
(2) Where any liability or expenditure of capital nature is waived it shall
constitute a chargeable gain for the purposes of Part VIiI of Chapter Two of
this Act.
194. (1) hl this Act, references to incomes, profits or gains charged or
chargeable to tax include references to profits, incomes or gains taxed or
taxable by deduction at source.
Waivers or
refund of
liability or
expenses
Supplemen-
tal
