[PAGE 161]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025 No. 7
A 547
a settlement.
PART III – SUPPLEM£NTARY PROVISIONS
10. For the purposes of Chapter Two of this Act and Part I of the First
Schedule to this Act, where an asset of a trade or business9 profession or
vocation forms part of the estate of a deceased individual, being an asset re
respect of which capital allowance maY be claimed in arriving at tIle .total
income of that individual for the year of assessment in which the individual
died, the estate shall be deemed to have incurTed qualifYing expenditure on the
acquisition of the asset equal in amount to the residue of an exFnditure on the
day following the death of the individual.
11 . An individual in receipt of an annuity of fixed annual aaKxlnt paId out
of the income of a settlement) trust or an estate shall be assessable to tax on
the full amount of the annuity.
12. lbe income arising from a settlement, trust or an estate assessable to
ux under a provision of this Schedule in the hands of anY senIor, trustee?
executor beieficialy or annuiunt for a year of assessment shall be the amc)un!
of the income ascertained under the foregoing provisions of this Schedule of
the year preceding that year.
13. (1 ) Where the Income of a settlement, trust or estate of a year in?ludes
an income which is taxable in Nigeria and elsewhere, whether bY deduction or_
:=tLe:: i == h= T :=?T ::== 
1t ::PbL:g11:::: : : : : i fat:: :!I;: 1:: :: :i: \hf:: :[ Fg :iIii :
taxed income were receivable by the persons to whim the computed income
of that year is apportioned under the provisions of paragraph 4 of thIS
Schedule 
–
(a) in due proportion to their respective shares therein ; or
(b) where paragraph 4(b) of this Schedule applies in propodiqn to theE
sh;r£s in the rem;inder of the computed income as therein specified and
where there is no computed income, the relief or repaYment shall be given
or made to the trustee ir executor for the account of the settlement, trust or
estate
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, referenc_es to an individual in
Chap;e; Two of a;is Act shall be deemed to include references to a trustee or
executor.
14. Subject to the provisions of this Schedule –
(a) a trustee of a settlement or trust, and everY Executor, shalltt)e p-
sw:£b1 :fi; 
-an things to be done in connection with the tax under this
Act 
; and
W m income apportioned to a trustee or executor shall be assessable bY
