[PAGE 92]

A 478
2025 No. 7 
Nigeria Tax Ha 2025
VAT and the month to which thie
(4) The VAT collected, withheld or self-accounted urder this section
shall be remitted to the Service on or before the 14th day of the month imme-
diateIY following the month of the transaction or as may be prescribed by the
Service
(5) A person having an obligation to collect VAT under Chapter Six of
this Act shall keep proper records, make appropriate returns md remittances!
and all provisions relating to compliance obligation in Chapter Six of this Actp
the Nigeria Tax Administration Act, 2025 or related tax laws shall apply to
such person as though it is the taxable person.
156. (!) A taxable person shall, not later than the due date for rendering
the relevant tax return prescribed by the Nigeria Tax A&ninistrationActl 2025)
where the –
(a) output VAT exceeds the input VAT, remit the excess to the Service ;
or
(b) input VAT exceeds the output VAT, be entitled to utilise the excess
tax as a credit against subsequent montln.
(2) A taxable person shall be entitled to a refund of excess VAT not
utilised as a credit, upon request to the Service and provision of sul„h infltrma_
don or documents as the Service may require.
(3) An importer of taxable goods shall, before clearing those goods, pay
to the Service the VAT on the goods.
(4) A person whose supplies are chargeable to VAr at 0%, shall pay
VAT on taxable supplies consumed in the production of its supplies, and may
thereafter request for a refund of the VAT paid.
(5)Input tax incunedby andstendpersonon any taxable supplyp includng
services and fixed assets made to such person, may be deducted from the tax
paYable bY the person on its taxable supplies at the end of the tax period in
which the suWIY occurred, but only to the extent that the input tax was incurred
for the purpose of consumption, use or supply in the course of making taxable
supplies.
Credit for
input tax and
remission of
VAT
Provided that –
(a) where anY input tax is incurred in making both taxable and non.
taxable supplies, only the proportion relating to making taxable supplies may
be deducted ; and
(b) the input tax shall be allowable for deduction within five years a&er
the end of the tax period hI which the input tax wa incurred
(6) The lnput tax which maY be deducted in line with subsection (5) shall
be limited to taxable supplies made as from the commencement of this Act
