[PAGE 149]

Nigeria Tex_ l4cr, 2f}{5
2025 No. 7
A 535
capital allowance c]aimable under this Part.
(3) Any asset or part thereof in respect of which capital allowance have_
been granted shall not be disposed except on the Bah9ritY ofa Certificate of
Disposal issued by the CommissIon.
Asset to be in use at end of accounting period
6. A capital allowance in respect of qualifying expenditure incurred on an
asset shall be due to a company for any accounting period, if at the end of the
accounting period it was the owner of that asset and the asset was in use for
the purposes of the petroleum operations carried on bY it-
Residue
7. The residue of qualifying expenditure, in respect of an asset, at any
date9 is the total qualif;ing expenditure incurred on or before that date, hI
respect of the asset, less the total of anY capital allowance nHde, in respect of
that asset, before that date.
Disposal of qualifying expenditure
8. In this Part –
(a) a building structure or works of a permanent nature is disposed
where –
(i) the relevant interest therein is sold ,
aD that interest, being an interest depending on the duration of ? con-
cession comes to an end, on the corning to an end of that concession’
all) that leasehold interest terHinates without the person who holds it
acquiring the reversionary interest, which is the right of the owner ofthe
maerlyiig title to possess the land when the leasehold scheme expires'
or
(iV) the bdlding9 structure or works of a permanent nature are demol-
ished or destroyed or, without being demolished or destroYed, cease to be
used for the purposes of petroleum operations carried on bY the owner ;
(b) pUnts machinery or fixtures are disposed if sold, piscarded OF cease
to be t5ed for the purposes of petroleum OFrations carried on bY the
owner ; and
(c) assets in respect of which qualifying drilling expenditure is incurred
are disposed if they are sold or cease to be used for the peholeum opefa-
dons of the company incurTing the exFIxttun eittur on suc! ?omplW ceasm?
to carry on all such operations or on such companY recelvlng lnsurance or
compensation monies therefrom.
Value of an asset
9. (1) The value of an asset at the date of its disposal shall be the net
