[PAGE 91]

Nigeria Tax Act, 2025
2025 No. 7
153. (1) A taxable person who makes a taxable supply shall maintain a
sequential invoice numbering, and shall in respct ofa suppIYI furnish the pW-
tIuser with a VAT invoice containing, the following –
VAT Invoice
(a) supplierJs tax ID ;
(b) an invoice number ;
(c) name and address of the supplier ;
(d) supplier’s incorporation or business registration number as applicable;
(e) the date of supply ;
(j) name of purchaser or client ;
(g) gross amount of transaction ; and
(h) VAT charged and the rate.
(2) VAT invoice shall be issued on suPPIY whether or not pa:Went is
made at the time of supply.
(3) VAT invoice shall be issued by a taxable person making a taxable
supply or such other person as maY be appinted bY the Setvlce-
(4) For the purpose of subsection ( 1), the Service may direct any taxable
person who makes taxable supplies tO adopt the use of electronic invoice9
provided that it gives a notice of, at least 30 daYS to the person'
154. (1) A taxable person shall, on making taxable supplies ulwier Chap
ter six of thi Atl9 coRel,.t VAT at the rate specified in section 148 of this Act.
Collection of
VAT by
taxable
person
(2) The VAT collected by a taxable person under subsection (1) shall be
known as output VAT.
155. (1) Without prejudice to any provision of this Act or anY other jax
law9 the following persons shall collect or withhold VAT on taxable supplles
mde to them and-remit it to the Service within the time prescribed bY this Act
the Nigeria Tax Adninistration Act, 2025, or any npl&ion 
made pwsuant
thereto –
Collection of
VAT by
persons
other than
the supplier
(a) Federal State9 Local Govenunent and their respective Ministries)
Departments or Agencres; or
(b) any other person appointed by the Service to collect or withhold VAT
for the purposes of this Part.
(2) TM Service nmy direct a taxable person to whom texable supplies is
made in Nigeria and issued an invoice on which VAT is not included, to self-
account fbr-the VAT payable and remit it to the Service.
(3) The remission of the VAT under subsections (1) and (2) shall be
acco A’anied with a schedule showing the name9 Tax ID ard address of thT
contractor or supplier, invoice number) goss amount of invoice’ amount of the
