 
321 
 
CHAPTER P8 
 
PERSONAL INCOME TAX ACT 
 
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS 
 
PART I 
 
Imposition of tax and income chargeable 
 
SECTION  
 
1. 
Imposition of tax.  
 
2. 
Persons on whom tax is to be imposed.  
 
3. 
Income chargeable.  
 
4. 
General provisions as to valuation of benefits.  
 
5. 
Valuation as to living accommodation.  
 
6. 
Business or trade only partially carried on or deemed to be carried on in Nigeria.  
 
6A.    Profits of a trade or business of furnishing of services carried out outside Nigeria. 
 
7. 
Relevant tax authority may assess and charge tax on the turnover of a business, etc.  
 
8. 
Partnership.  
 
9. 
Agricultural, etc., profit.  
 
10. 
Employment.  
 
11. 
Tax credit allowable against tax payable on income derived from outside Nigeria.  
 
12. 
Nigerian dividends.  
 
13. 
Foreign income.  
 
14. 
Interest.  
 
15. 
Territory in which dividend or interest paid by a Nigerian company arises.  
 
16. 
Settlement, trusts and estates.  
 

 
322 
 
17. 
Artificial transactions. 
 
18. 
Certain appeals. 
 
19. 
Income exempted. 
 
PART II 
 
Ascertainment of income 
 
20. 
Deduction allowed.  
 
21. 
Deductions not allowed.  
 
22. 
Waiver of refund of liability or expense.  
 
PART III 
 
Ascertainment of assessable income 
 
23. 
Basis for computing assessable income.  
 
24. 
New trades.  
 
25. 
Cessation of trades, etc.  
 
26. 
Employment and pensions.  
 
27. 
Trusts and estates.  
 
28. 
Itinerant workers.  
 
29. 
Continuity of trades, etc.  
 
30. 
Apportionment of income.  
 
31. 
Receipts and payment after cessation of trade, etc.  
 
32. 
Ascertainment of chargeable income.  
 
33. 
Personal relief and relief for children, dependants.  
 
34. 
Deductions to be claimed.  
 
35. 
Proof of claims.  
 

 
323 
 
PART IV 
 
Ascertainment of total income 
 
36. 
Total income from all sources. 
 
PART V 
 
Rate of tax and double taxation 
 
37. 
Charge of income tax.  
 
38. 
Double taxation arrangement.  
 
39. 
Method of calculating relief to be allowed for double taxation.  
 
PART VI 
 
Persons chargeable and returns 
 
40. 
Persons chargeable and returns.  
 
41. 
Returns by taxable person.  
 
42. 
Place of an offence.  
 
43. 
Returns not to be filed where income is ₦30,000 or less.  
 
44. 
Self-assessment by individual.  
 
45. 
Bonus for early tiling of self-assessment returns.  
 
46. 
Power to call for further returns.  
 
47. 
Power to call for returns, books, documents and information.  
 
48. 
Disclosure and procurement of information.  
 
49. 
Information to be delivered by bankers.  
 
50. 
Power to appoint agent.  
 
51. 
Returns to be deemed to be furnished with due authority.  
 
52. 
Books of account.  
 

 
324 
 
53. 
Power to enter and search premises, etc.  
 
PART VII 
 
Assessments 
 
54. 
Assessment of income tax.  
 
55. 
Additional assessment.  
 
56. 
List of persons assessed, etc.  
 
57. 
Service of notice of assessment.  
 
58. 
Revision in case of objection.  
 
59. 
Errors and defects in assessment and notice.  
 
PART VIII 
 
Appeals 
 
60. 
Establishment of body of Appeal Commissioners.  
 
PART IX 
 
Collection, recovery, and repayment of tax 
 
68. 
Payment of income tax.  
 
69. 
Deduction of tax on rent.  
 
70. 
Deduction of tax on interest, etc.  
 
71. 
Deduction of tax on dividend.  
 
72. 
Deduction of tax on director’s fees.  
 
73. 
Deduction of tax at source.  
 
74. 
Penalty for failure to deduct tax.  
 
75. 
Application of provision.  
 
76. 
Penalty for non-payment of income tax.  
 

 
325 
 
77. 
Interest for late payment of income tax.  
 
78. 
Action for income tax by the relevant tax authority.  
 
79. 
Remission of penalty.  
 
80. 
Remission of tax.  
 
81. 
P.A.Y.E.  
 
82. 
Employer to be answerable for tax deducted.  
 
83. 
Relief in respect of error or mistake.  
 
84. 
Payment of tax.  
 
85. 
Tax clearance certificate. 
 
PART X 
 
Administrative and transitional provisions 
 
86. 
Joint Tax Board.  
 
87. 
Establishment and composition of the State Board of Internal Revenue.  
 
88. 
Functions of the States Board.  
 
89. 
Establishment of Technical Committee of States Board.  
 
90. 
Establishment of Local Government Revenue Committee.  
 
91. 
Functions of the Revenue Committee.  
 
92. 
Establishment and composition of Joint State Revenue Committee.  
 
93. 
Functions.  
 
PART XI 
 
Offences and penalties 
 
94. 
Offences and penalties.  
 
95. 
Penalty for making incorrect returns.  
 

 
326 
 
96. 
False statements and returns.  
 
97. 
Penalty for offences by authorised and unauthorised persons.  
 
98. 
Tax to be payable not withstanding proceedings.  
 
99. 
Prosecution to be with sanction of Board.  
 
100. Saving for criminal proceedings. 
 
101. Place of an offence. 
 
PART XII 
 
Powers of tax collectors 
 
102. Definition of tax collector. 
 
103. Power to enter and require information. 
 
104. Power to distrain for non-payment of tax. 
 
105. Obstruction to be an offence. 
 
106. Immunity from action, etc. 
 
106A. Power to make regulations. 
 
PART XIII 
 
Miscellaneous 
 
107. Repeal of Cap. 173, Cap. 43 and Cap. 174 L.F.N. 1990. 
 
108. Interpretation. 
 
109. Short title and application. 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES 
 
FIRST SCHEDULE 
 
Determination of residence 
 

 
327 
 
SECOND SCHEDULE 
 
Income from settlement, trusts and estates 
 
THIRD SCHEDULE 
 
Income exempted 
 
FOURTH SCHEDULE 
 
Retirement benefit schemes 
 
FIFTH SCHEDULE 
 
Capital Allowances 
 
SIXTH SCHEDULE 
 
Income tax table 
 
SEVENTH SCHEDULE 
 
Double taxation arrangements 
 
EIGHT SCHEDULE 
 
Warrant and authority to enter premises 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
328 
 
CHAPTER P8 
 
PERSONAL INCOME TAX ACT 
 
An Act to impose income tax on individuals, communities and families and on executors 
and trustees; and to provide for the assessment and collection and administration of the 
tax.  
 
[1993 No. 104] 
[Commencement] 
 
 
[25th August, 1993] 
 
 
PART I 
 
Imposition of tax and income chargeable 
 
1.  Imposition of tax  
 
There is hereby imposed a tax on the income- 
 
(a) of individuals, communities and families; and  
 
(b) arising or due to a trustee or estate,  
 
which shall be determined under and be subject to the provisions of this Act.  
[1996 No. 30.] 
 
2.  Persons on whom tax is to be collected  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(1) Tax of an amount to be determined from the Table set out in the Sixth Schedule (in this Act 
referred to as “income tax”) shall be payable for each year of assessment on the total income 
of- 
[Sixth Schedule] 
 
(a) every individual other than persons covered under paragraph (b) of this subsection or 
corporation sole or body of individuals deemed to be resident for that year in the relevant 
State under the provisions of this Act; and  
 
(b) the following other persons, that is- 
 
(i) persons employed in the Nigerian Army, the Nigerian Navy, the Nigerian Air 
Force, the Nigerian Police Force other than in a civilian capacity; 
 
(ii) officers of the Nigerian Foreign Service; 
 

 
329 
 
(iii) every resident of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja; and  
 
(iv) a person resident outside Nigeria who derives income or profit from Nigeria.  
 
(1A) Notwithstanding anything in the principal Act, the relevant tax authority in a State shall have 
powers to collect tax under this Act from itinerant workers.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
Individuals  
 
(2) In the case of an individual, other than an itinerant worker and persons covered under 
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of this section, tax for any year of assessment may be 
collected only by the State in which the individual is deemed to be resident for that year 
under the provisions of the First Schedule to this Act and in the case of persons referred to in 
subsection (1) (b) of this section, tax shall be collected by the Federal Inland Revenue 
Service.  
[First Schedule.] 
 
Itinerant workers  
 
(3) In the case of an itinerant worker, tax may be collected for any year by any State in which 
the itinerant worker is found during the year:  
 
Provided that:  
 
(a) in an assessment for any year upon an itinerant worker credit shall be given against the 
tax payable, but not exceeding the amount thereof, for any income tax already paid by 
him to any other tax authority for the same year; and  
 
(b) collection of so much of any tax imposed in a territory on an itinerant worker for a year 
of assessment as remains unpaid on the itinerant worker leaving that territory during that 
year shall remain in abeyance during his absence from that territory, and if he returns to 
that territory having during his absence paid tax in some other territory for that year, 
credit shall be given against any unpaid tax in the first mentioned territory, but not 
exceeding that unpaid amount, for the tax paid in that other territory.  
 
Communities  
 
(4) In the case of a village or other indigenous communities, tax may be collected for any year 
only by the law of the territory in which that community is to be found and the tax may be 
charged on- 
 
(a) the estimated total income of all its members;  
 
(b) the estimated total income of those of its members whose income it is impracticable in 
the opinion of the relevant tax authority to assess individually; or  

 
330 
 
 
(c) the amount of any communal income which, in the opinion of the relevant tax authority 
in relation to such community, it is impracticable to apportion with certainty between its 
members.  
 
Families  
 
(5) In the case of income of a family recognised under any law or custom in Nigeria as families 
income, in which the several interests of individual members of the family are indeterminate 
or uncertain, tax may be collected only by the territory in which the member of that family 
who customarily receives that income in the first instance in Nigeria usually resides.  
 
Trustees  
 
(6) In the case of income arising to a trustee of any settlements or trusts, or estates or to an 
executor of any estate of a deceased person, tax may only be collected by the territory of 
which the tax authority is the relevant tax authority in relation to such settlement, trust or 
estate and to the extent provided in the Second Schedule to this Act.  
[Second Schedule.] 
 
(7) Nothing in this section shall be construed as imposing liability to tax on the personal 
emoluments of any person serving as other rank and accordingly any other enactment or law 
imposing tax on the income or individuals shall not apply:  
 
Provided that where any other income accrues to a person serving as other rank (not being 
income by way of personal emoluments) that income shall be liable to tax under this Act or 
under any relevant enactment or law.  
 
(8) In this section- 
 
“other rank” has the meaning assigned thereto by the Armed Forces Pensions Act; and  
[Cap. A23.] 
 
“personal emoluments” means wages or salaries and includes allowances including benefits in 
kind, gratuities, superannuation or pension schemes and any other income derived solely by 
reason or employment as other rank.  
[2011 No. 20] 
 
3.  Income chargeable  
 
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, tax shall be payable for each year of assessment on the 
aggregate amounts each of which is the income of every taxable person, for the year, from a 
source inside or outside Nigeria, including, without restricting the generality of the 
foregoing- 
 
(a) gain or profit from any trade, business, profession or vocation, for whatever period of 

 
331 
 
time such trade, business, profession or vocation may have been carried on or exercised;  
 
(b) any salary, wage, fee, allowance or other gain or profit from employment including 
compensations, bonuses, premiums, benefits or other perquisites allowed, given or 
granted by any person to any temporary or permanent employee other than so much of 
any sums as or expenses incurred by him in the performance of his duties, and from 
which it is not intended that the employee should make any profit or gain; 
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(i) medical or dental expenses incurred by the employee;  
 
(ii) the cost of any passage to or from Nigeria incurred by the employee;  
 
(iii) any sum paid in respect of the maintenance or education of a child if any provision 
of this Act provides that any sum received by the employee during a year of 
assessment shall be deducted from the personal reliefs to be granted to him for the 
next following year;  
 
(iv) so much of any amount of rent the employee is treated as being in receipt equal to 
the annual amount deemed to be incurred by the employer under section 4 of this 
Act; 
 
(v) so much of any amount of rent the employee is treated as having received under the 
provisions of section 5 of this Act; 
 
(vi) so much of the amount of rent subsidy or rent allowance paid by the employer, to or 
on account, for the employee not exceeding ₦100,000 per 
[1999 No. 30.] 
 
(vii) meal subsidy or meal allowance, subject to a maximum of ₦5,000 per annum;  
[1999 No. 30.] 
 
(viii) utility allowance of ₦10,000 per annum;  
[1999 No. 30.] 
 
(ix) entertainment allowance of ₦6,000 per annum; 
 
(x) leave grant, subject to a maximum of ten per cent of annual basic salary;  
[1999 No. 30.] 
 
(c) gain or profit including any premiums arising from a right granted to any other person for 
the use or occupation of any property;  
 
(d) dividend, interest or discount;  
 
(e) any pension, charge or annuity;  

 
332 
 
 
(f) any profit, gain or other payment not falling within paragraphs (a) to (e) inclusive of this 
subsection.  
 
(g) For the purpose of this section- 
 
(a) “allowance” includes any sum paid or payable in respect of expenses and any sum 
put by an employer at the disposal of an employee and paid away by the employee;  
 
(b) “income” includes any amount deemed to be income under this Act;  
 
(c) the gains or profits arising from a right granted to any other person for the use or 
occupation of property under any lease or assignment thereof, being rent paid or 
expressed to be paid in advance, shall be deemed to accrue to the recipient from day 
to day over the period for which such rent has been paid:  
 
Provided that where the period exceeds five years, the whole of the rent so paid or 
expressed to be paid in advance shall be treated as accruing evenly from day to day 
over the five years commencing on the first day of that said period;  
 
(d) “employment” includes any service rendered by any person in return for any gains 
or profits;  
 
(e) “dividend” means- 
 
(i) in relation to a company not being in the process of being wound up or 
liquidated, any profits distributed, whether such profits are of a capital nature 
or not, including an amount equal to the nominal value of bonus shares, 
debentures or securities awarded to the shareholder; and  
 
(ii) in relation to a company that is being wound up or liquidated, any profits 
distributed, whether in money or money's worth or otherwise, other than those 
of a capital nature earned before or during the winding up or liquidation.  
 
4. General provisions as to valuation of benefits  
 
(1) Where an employer incurs any expense in the provision of any benefit or perquisite in 
accordance with section 3 (1) (b) (vi) of this Act, other than the provision of living 
accommodation to which section 5 of this Act relates, the following provisions shall apply- 
 
(a) in any case where any assets which continue to belong to an employer is used wholly or 
partly in the making of such provisions, he shall be deemed to incur annual expenses in 
connection therewith of an amount equal to five per cent of the amount expended by him 
in acquiring the asset, but if that amount cannot be so ascertained, five per cent of the 
market value of the asset at the time of the acquisition, as determined by the relevant tax 
authority;  

 
333 
 
 
(b) in a case where any sum by way of rent or hire is payable by the employer in respect of 
any such asset, he shall be deemed to incur an annual expense in connection with the 
making of such provisions equal to the annual amount of the rent or hire expended by 
him on the asset; and  
 
(c) in any case, the employer shall be deemed to incur annual expense in connection with the 
making of such provisions equal to the annual amount expended thereon by him.  
 
(2) The employee shall be treated as being in receipt (in addition to any other emolument) of 
emolument equal to the annual amount so deemed to be incurred by the employer under 
subsection (1) of this section reduced by so much (if any) of the annual expense as is made 
good to the employer by the employee.  
 
(3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) of this section shall not apply to any expenses 
incurred by an employer- 
 
(a) in connection with the provision of meals in any canteen in which meals are provided for 
the staff generally or of luncheon vouchers for his employees if those vouchers are not 
assignable by an employee to whom they are issued;  
 
(b) in the provision of any uniform, overall or other protective clothing;  
 
(c) where those expenses are reasonable removal expenses which may or may not include a 
temporary subsistence allowance incurred by the employer by reason of a change of the 
employee’s employment which requires such employee to change his place of residence, 
and the employee shall not be treated as being in receipt of any remuneration in respect of 
the allowance.  
 
(4) A reference in this section to expenses incurred in connection with any matter includes a 
reference to a proper proportion of any expenses incurred partly in connection with the 
matter.  
 
(5) A reference in this section to anything provided for an employee shall, unless the reference 
is expressly to something provided for the employee himself, be construed as including a 
reference to anything provided for the spouse, family, servant, dependant or guest of that 
employee by the employer.  
 
5.  Valuation as to living accommodation  
 
(1) Where any premises in Nigeria are made available to the occupier by reason of his or his 
Wife’s holding an office or employment and- 
 
(a) the occupier pays no rent for the premises; or  
 
(b) the rent which the occupier pays for the premises is less than the annual value of the  

 
334 
 
 
premises,  
 
the employee shall be treated as being in receipt (in addition to any other emoluments) of 
emoluments at an annual rate equal to the annual value of the premises, as determined under 
subsection (3) of this section, reduced by the annual amount of rent which the occupier pays for 
the premises.  
 
(1) Subsection (1) of this section shall apply to an occupier being a woman as it applies to an 
occupier being a man with the substitution of “her husband” for “his wife” and that 
subsection shall accordingly be so construed.  
 
(2) In this section, “the annual value of the premises” means- 
 
(a) in relation to premises subject to any law governing assessment of local rates, the annual 
value of the premises as determined for purposes of local rates under that law;  
 
(b) in any other case, the annual value as determined by the relevant tax authority, and a 
reference in this section to annual value shall include a reference (where applicable) to 
such proper proportion of the annual value- 
 
(i) in relation to a period of occupation within a year; or (ii) in relation to the part of 
the premises occupied; or 
 
 
(ii) in relation to both a period of occupation within a year and the part of the premises 
occupied, as may be determined by the relevant tax authority.  
 
6. Business or trade only partially carried on or deemed to be carried on in Nigeria  
 
Where an individual, an executor, or a trustee, outside Nigeria carries on a trade or business of 
which only part of the operations are carried out in Nigeria, the gains or profits of the trade or 
business shall be deemed to be derived from Nigeria to the extent to which such gains or profits 
are not attributable to that part of the operations carried on outside Nigeria:  
 
Provided that- 
 
(a) the individual, executor or trustee does not have a fixed base in Nigeria from which he 
carries on such trade or business;  
 
(b) the individual, executor or trustee does not habitually operate a trade or business through 
a person in Nigeria authorised to conclude contracts on his behalf or on behalf of some 
other persons related to him or both of whom are controlled by some other person or does 
not habitually maintain a stock of goods or merchandise in Nigeria from which deliveries 
are regularly made on his behalf;  
 
(c) the trade or business in Nigeria does not involve a single contract for surveys, deliveries, 
installations or construction;  

 
335 
 
(d) the trade or business is not between persons both of whom are controlled by some other 
person and such that conditions are made or imposed between such persons in their 
commercial or financial relations which in the opinion of the relevant tax authority is 
deemed to be artificial or fictitious.  
 
6A.  Profits of a trade or business of furnishing of services carried out outside Nigeria 
 
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 6 of this Act, where an individual, executor, or 
trustee outside Nigeria carries on a trade or  business that comprises the furnishing of 
technical, management, consultancy or professional services to a person resident in Nigeria, 
the gains or profits of the trade or business shall be deemed to be derived from and taxable 
in Nigeria to the extent that the individual, executor or trustee has significant economic 
presence in Nigeria- 
 
Provided that the withholding tax applicable to income pursuant to this Act shall be the final 
tax on the income of a non-resident recipient who does not otherwise fall within the scope of 
section 6 of this Act. 
[2020 No. 1, s. 25] 
 
(2) For the purpose of this section, the Minister may by Order, determine what constitutes the 
significant economic presence of a non-resident individual, executor or trustee. 
[2020 No. 1, s. 25] 
 
7.  Relevant tax authority may assess and charge tax on the turnover of a business, etc.  
 
(1) Where, in respect of any business carried on by a person it appears to the relevant tax 
authority that for any year of assessment, the business produces either no assessable income 
or an assessable income which in the opinion of the relevant tax authority is less than might 
be expected to arise from that business or, as the case may be, the true amount of the 
assessable income of that person from the business cannot be readily ascertained, the 
relevant tax authority may for that year of assessment, in respect of that business, and 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Act- 
 
(a) if the whole of the operations of the business are carried on in Nigeria, assess and charge 
the person carrying on the business on such fair and reasonable percentage of the 
turnover of the business, as the relevant tax authority may determine;  
 
(b) if that person is a non-resident who- 
 
(i) has a fixed base from where he carried on such business, assess and charge that 
person on such a fair and reasonable percentage of the turnover attributable to that 
fixed base; 
 
 
(ii) operates a business through a person authorised to conclude contracts on his behalf 
or on behalf of some person related to him or both of whom are controlled by some 
other person or operates a business through a person who regularly makes 

 
336 
 
deliveries from a stock of goods or merchandise habitually held in Nigeria on his 
behalf, assess and charge that person on a fair and reasonable percentage of the 
turnover of the business carried on through that person;  
 
(iii) operates a business in Nigeria which involves a single contract for surveys, 
deliveries, installation or construction, assess and charge that person on a fair and 
reasonable percentage of the contract.  
 
(2) The provisions of this Act as to notice of assessment, additional assessment, appeal and 
other proceedings shall apply to an assessment or additional assessment made under this 
section.  
 
(3) In this section- 
 
(a) “business” includes a trade, profession or vocation;  
 
(b) “person” in relation to the carrying on of a business, has the meaning assigned to it by 
section 108 of this Act but does not include a company.  
8.  Partnership  
 
(1) The gains or profits from a partnership of a partner therein shall be the sum of- 
 
(a) any remuneration, interest on capital, or the cost of passages to or from Nigeria wholly or 
mainly undertaken for the purpose of leave or recreation, which is charged in the 
partnership accounts in respect of that partner; and  
 
(b) his share in the income of the partnership, computed in accordance with the provisions of 
this Act after the deduction of charges to which paragraph (a) of this subsection applies in 
respect of all the partners but before the deduction of any other expenses of the 
partnership referable to a partner which would have been private or domestic expenditure 
within the meaning of subsection (1) (a) of section 21 of this Act if incurred directly by 
that partner.  
 
(2) When the income computed under paragraph (a) of this subsection results in a loss, the 
partner’s share therein shall be deducted from his gains or profits ascertained under the 
provisions of subsection (1) (b) of this section and he shall be deemed to have incurred a 
loss in the trade or business of partnership to the extent, if any, by which the deductible 
share exceeds those gains or profits.  
 
(3) For the purpose of subsection (1) of this section, the share of a partner in the computed 
income of a partnership shall be such proportion of that computed income as would accrue 
to him under the provisions of the partnership agreement if that computed income were 
wholly apportionable between the partners within the terms of the agreement, or where the 
computed income results in a loss, such proportion of that loss as would be chargeable to 
him if that loss falls to be allocated between the partners in the terms of the agreement.  
 

 
337 
 
(4) The amount of the gains or profits or loss of a partner, ascertained under the foregoing 
provisions of this section, of any period, shall be deemed for all purposes of this Act to be 
his ascertained income or loss of that period from a trade, business, profession or vocation 
carried on by him during that period, and the provisions of Part III of this Act, other than 
paragraph (g) of section 21 of this Act, shall not apply to that partner with respect to the 
income or loss.  
 
(5) The determination of the income or loss from a partnership or a partner therein shall be 
made by the relevant tax authority in relation to that partnership, and where any partner is 
taxable for a year of assessment in the territory of some other authority, the relevant tax 
authority shall supply to that other authority particulars of that determination.  
 
(6) An appeal against an assessment by any individual in so far as it relates to any partnership 
income or loss, shall lie only to the body of Appeal Commissioners or court specified for 
income tax purpose in a law of the territory of which the tax authority is the relevant 
authority in relation to that partnership.  
 
(7) For the purposes of paragraph 6 of the First Schedule to this Act, the income of a partner 
from a partnership in Nigeria shall be deemed to be derived from the territory of the relevant 
tax authority in relation to that partnership.  
[First Schedule.] 
 
(8) The partnership, employee or agent in charge of the principal office or place of business of a 
partnership in Nigeria shall without notice or demand thereof register or cause to be 
registered with the relevant tax authority, a certified copy of the partnership deed or, where 
no written deed is in existence, particulars of any written or oral agreement under which the 
partnership is currently established and where any such particulars, have been so registered, 
notice of any subsequent change therein agreed between the partners shall be similarly 
registered with that tax authority within thirty days of the agreement.  
 
(9) Where the particulars of any partnership have been registered under the provisions of 
subsection (8) of this section, the computation under this section of the gains or profits of a 
partner therein may be made by the relevant lax authority on the basis of those particulars as 
they apply at any relevant time and in the event of failure by a partnership to comply with 
any demand made under the foregoing subsection, notwithstanding the provisions of 
subsection (3) of this section, tax may be assessed and charged by the relevant tax authority 
as though the whole gains or profits of such partnership accrued to any individual partner 
therein or were divisible between any partner therein as may appear just and reasonable to 
the tax authority.  
 
9.  Agricultural, etc., profit  
 
The gain or profit of an individual from any land used by him for agricultural purposes or from 
livestock shall, unless the relevant tax authority is satisfied to the contrary, be deemed to be the 
gain or profit which would be realised by him if the land were cultivated or used or the livestock 
were dealt with, as the case may be, in the manner and up to the average standard of cultivation, 

 
338 
 
use or practice relating to the use of the land or the dealing with livestock prevailing in the 
neighbourhood.  
 
10. Employment  
 
(1) The gain or profit from an employment shall be deemed to be derived from Nigeria if- 
 
(a) the duties of the employment are wholly or partly performed in Nigeria, unless- 
 
(i) the duties are performed on behalf of an employer who is in a country other than 
Nigeria and the remuneration of the employee is not borne by a fixed base of the 
employer in Nigeria; and  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(ii) the employee is not in Nigeria for a period or periods amounting to an aggregate of 
183 days (inclusive annual leave or temporary period of absence) or more in any 
twelve month period commencing in a calendar year and ending either within that 
same year or the following year; and  
[2011. No. 20.] 
 
(iii) the remuneration of the employee is liable to tax in that other country under the 
provisions of the avoidance of double taxation treaty with that other country;  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(b) the employer is in Nigeria, or has a fixed base in Nigeria.  
[2011 No. 20] 
 
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of this section, the gains 
or profits from an employment by a Government in Nigeria shall be deemed to be derived 
from Nigeria wherever the remuneration is paid if the employee performs the duties of that 
employment in a country other than Nigeria which country under an agreement or 
diplomatic usage exempts the employee from tax on those gains or profits.  
 
(3) The gain or profit from any employment exercised in Nigeria shall be deemed to be derived 
from Nigeria whether the gains or profits from the employment are received in Nigeria or 
not.  
 
(4) The gains or profits from any employment, the duties of which are wholly or mainly 
performed in Nigeria, shall be deemed to be derived from Nigeria during any period of leave 
of the employee from the employment, and any period of his temporary absence on duty 
from Nigeria.  
 
[Former subsection (5) deleted by 2011 No. 20.]  
 
(5) Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the gains or profits of an individual from any 
employment as a seafarer, other than any such employment in the Nigerian Navy or the 

 
339 
 
Nigerian Ports Authority, shall be deemed to be derived from Nigeria only during any period 
in which the individual is serving under articles which he had signed in Nigeria or is 
performing stand-by duty on board a ship preparatory to his signing articles in Nigeria.  
 
11. Tax credit allowable against tax payable on income derived from outside Nigeria  
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3 (1) of this Act, where a resident derives income from 
a source outside Nigeria and the income is brought into Nigeria through Government approved 
channels, he shall be allowed a tax credit against the tax payable by him but the tax credit shall 
not exceed the proportion of his total tax for the year of assessment which that income derived 
from outside and brought into Nigeria bears to his aggregate income chargeable to tax in Nigeria.  
 
12. Nigerian dividends  
 
(1) The income from a dividend distributed by a Nigerian company shall be deemed to be 
derived from Nigeria, and shall be the gross amount of that dividend before deduction of any 
tax which the company is required to deduct on payment thereof under the provisions of any 
law in force in Nigeria at the relevant time imposing taxation on the profits of companies.  
(2) Any amount of the undistributed profit of a Nigerian company which is treated as distributed 
under the provisions of any law in force in Nigeria imposing tax on the profits of companies 
shall, for the purpose of this Act, be deemed to be income from a dividend accruing to any 
person who is a shareholder in the company in proportion to his share in the ordinary capital 
thereof at the relevant time, and the income from the dividend to be taken for assessment in 
his hands shall be his due proportion thereof increased by such amount as may be specified 
by the relevant tax authority in respect of tax deemed to be deducted at source.  
 
(3) The income from a dividend distributed by a Nigerian company shall be deemed to arise on 
the day on which payment of that dividend becomes due.  
 
13. Foreign income  
 
The income from a dividend paid by a company other than a Nigerian company, or from any 
other source outside Nigeria, shall be the amount of that income brought into or received in 
Nigeria, provided that, if the income arose in a country to which section 39 this Act applies, the 
amount of that income to be taken for assessment shall be the amount computed under 
subsection (5) of section 39 of this Act.  
 
14. Interest  
 
The income from any interest on money lent by an individual or an executor, or a trustee, outside 
Nigeria to a person in Nigeria (including a person who is resident or present in Nigeria at the 
time of the loan) shall be deemed to be derived from Nigeria if- 
 
(a) there is liability to payment in Nigeria of the interest regardless of what form the payment 
takes and wherever the payment is made;  
 

 
340 
 
(b) the interest accrues in Nigeria to a foreign company or person regardless of what form the 
payment takes and wherever the payment is made.  
 
15. Territory in which dividend or interest paid by a Nigerian company arises  
 
Where a dividend or interest is distributed or paid by a Nigerian company, the dividend or 
interest, as the case may be, whenever necessary for the purpose of the First Schedule to the Act, 
shall be deemed to be derived from the territory in which the recipient of the dividend or interest 
resides or, where the recipient is not resident in Nigeria, the person shall be deemed to be a 
person to whom section 2 (1) (h) (iv) applies.  
[First Schedule.] 
 
16. Settlement, trusts and estates  
 
The income of an individual or of a trustee or executor from a settlement, trust, or estate of a 
deceased person, made, created or administered in Nigeria, or in the case of settlement or trust 
made, created or administered in Nigeria, shall be ascertained in accordance with the provisions 
of the Second Schedule to this Act.  
[Second Schedule.] 
 
17. Artificial transactions  
 
(1) Where a tax authority is of opinion that any disposition is not in fact given effect to, or that 
any transaction which reduces or would reduce the amount of any tax payable is artificial or 
fictitious, the tax authority may disregard the disposition or direct that such adjustments 
shall be made as respects the income of an individual, an executor or a trustee, as the tax 
authority considers appropriate so as to counteract the reduction of liability to tax effected, 
or reduction which would otherwise be effected by the transaction.  
 
(2) Where it appears that the interests of more than one tax authority are affected thereby, the 
exercise of any power conferred on a tax authority by subsection of this section shall be 
performed by the relevant tax authority alone and any decision or direction of the relevant 
tax authority under this section shall be binding on all tax authorities.  
 
(3) For the purposes of this section- 
 
(a) “disposition” includes any trust, grant, covenant, agreement or arrangement;  
 
(b) transactions between persons one of whom either has control over the other or in case of 
individuals who are related to each other or between persons both of whom are controlled 
by some other person, shall be deemed to be artificial or fictitious if in the opinion of the 
tax authority those transactions have not been made on terms which might fairly have 
been expected to have been made by independent persons engaged in the same or similar 
activities dealing with one another at arm‘s length.  
 
 

 
341 
 
18. Certain appeals  
 
An appeal with respect to assessment of income arising from any decision or direction of the 
relevant tax authority under subsection (2) of section 17 of this Act, shall lie only to the Federal 
High Court at the instance of the person in whose hand that income is assessed to tax, and no 
shareholder shall have any right of appeal with respect to any amount deemed to be his income 
under the provisions of subsection (2) of section 12 of this Act.  
 
19. Income exempted  
 
(1) There shall be exempt from the tax all that income specified in the Third Schedule to this 
Act.  
 
(2) The Minister may by notice include in the Third Schedule to this Act all or any person or 
class of persons chargeable to tax by virtue of this Act, so as to exempt the income of that 
person or class of persons from tax in pursuance of-   
[Third Schedule.] 
 
(a) any treaty, convention or agreement between the Federal Government of Nigeria and any 
other country or any arrangement with or decision of an international organisation of 
which the Federal Government of Nigeria is a member; or  
 
(b) any arrangement in that behalf subsisting between the Government of the Federation and 
the Government of each State.  
 
(3) Nothing in this section or the Third Schedule to this Act shall be construed so as to- 
 
(a) exempt in the hands of the recipients any interest, bonuses, salaries or wages paid wholly 
or in part out of income exempted thereby; or  
 
(b) authorise a State Government, a company or any person or agency of government, a 
company or any person, whether resident or not in Nigeria, to provide tax exemption 
clauses in an agreement or arrangement without seeking approval first from the Minister 
of Finance and thereafter from the President.  
 
PART II 
 
Ascertainment of income 
 
20. Deduction allowed  
 
(1) For the purpose of ascertaining the income or loss of an individual for any period from any 
source chargeable with tax under this Act there shall be deducted all outgoing and expenses, 
or any part thereof, wholly, exclusively, necessarily and reasonably incurred during that 
period and ultimately borne by that individual in the production of the income, including- 
 

 
342 
 
(a) a sum payable by way of interest on money borrowed and employed as capital in 
acquiring the income;  
 
(b) interest on loans for developing an owner-occupied residential house;  
 
(c) rent for that period, and premiums the liability for which was incurred during that period, 
payable in respect of land or buildings occupied for the purpose of acquiring the income; 
and  
 
(d) any expense incurred for repair of premises, plant, machinery or fixtures employed in 
acquiring the income, or for the renewal, repair or alteration of any implement, utensil or 
article so employed:  
 
Provided that if the premises, plant, machinery, fixtures, implement, utensil or article are 
used in part for domestic or private purposes, so much of the expense as relates to such 
use shall not be so deducted;  
 
(e) bad debts incurred in any trade, business, profession or vocation, proved to have become 
bad during the period for which the income is being ascertained, and doubtful debts to the 
extent that they are respectively estimated to have become bad during the said period and 
notwithstanding that such bad or doubtful debts were due and payable prior to the 
commencement of the said period:  
 
Provided that- 
 
(i) where in any period a deduction under this paragraph is to be made as respect any 
particular debt, and a deduction has in any previous period been allowed in respect 
of the same debt, the appropriate reduction shall be made in the deduction to be 
made in the period in question;  
 
(ii) all sums recovered during the said period on account of amounts previously written 
off or allowed in respect of bad or doubtful debts shall for the purposes of this Act 
be deemed to be income of the trade, business, profession or vocation of that 
period;  
 
(iii) it is proved that the debts in respect of which a deduction is claimed either were 
included as a receipt of the trade, business, profession or vocation in the income of 
the year within which they were incurred, or were advances not falling within the 
provisions of subsection (b) of section 21 of this Act made in the course of normal 
trading, business, professional or vocational operations;  
 
(f) a contribution or an abatement deducted from the salary or pension of a public officer 
under the Pensions Act or under any approved scheme within the meaning of that Act, 
and any contribution, other than a penalty, made under the provisions of any Act 
establishing the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund or other retirement benefits scheme 
for employees throughout Nigeria;  

 
343 
 
[Cap. P4.] 
 
(g) a contribution to a pension, provident or other retirement benefits fund, society, or 
scheme, recognised under the Pension Reform Act.  
[2020 No. 1, s. 26] 
 
(h) in the case of income from a trade, business, profession or vocation, any expenses or part 
thereof incurred for that period (whether the liability was met during that or any previous 
period) wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the trade, business, profession or 
vocation unless those expenses are or the same part thereof is deductible for that or any 
other period under the foregoing provisions of this section, and for the purpose of this 
paragraph an expense incurred during a period shall be treated as having been incurred 
for that period to the extent that it is not specifically referable to the income of any other 
period;  
 
(i) any expenses which are proved to the satisfaction of the relevant tax authority to have 
been incurred by the individual on research for the period including the amount of levy 
paid by him under the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure Act.  
[Cap. N3.] 
 
(2) Where the income is chargeable solely by reason of it being brought into or received in 
Nigeria, nothing in this section shall confer a right to any deduction from the amount of that 
income so brought into or received in Nigeria.  
 
21. Deductions not allowed  
 
Subject to the express provisions of this Act, no deduction shall be allowed for the purpose of 
ascertaining the income of any individual in respect of- 
 
(a) domestic or private expense;  
 
(b) capital withdrawn from a trade, business, profession or vocation and any expenditure of a 
capital nature;  
 
(c) any loss or expense recoverable under an insurance or contract of indemnity;  
 
(d) rent of or cost of repairs to any premises or part of premises not incurred for the purpose 
of producing the income;  
 
(e) taxes on income or profits levied in Nigeria or elsewhere except as provided in section 13 
of this Act;  
 
(f) any payment to a pension, provident, savings or widows’ and orphans’ society, fund or 
scheme, except as permitted by paragraphs (f) and (g) of subsection (1) of section 20 of 
this Act;  
 

 
344 
 
(g) the depreciation of any asset;  
 
(h) any sum reserved out of profits, except as permitted by paragraph (e) of subsection (1) of 
section 20 of this Act or as may be estimated by the relevant tax authority, pending 
determination of the amount, to represent the amount of any expense deductible under the 
provisions of that section, the liability for which was irrevocably incurred during the 
period for which the income is being ascertained;  
 
(i) any expenses of any description incurred within or outside Nigeria for the purpose of 
earning management fees unless prior approval of an agreement giving rise to such 
management fees has been obtained from the Minister;  
 
(j) any expense whatsoever incurred within or outside Nigeria as management fees under 
any agreement entered into after the commencement of this paragraph except to the 
extent as the Minister may allow.  
 
22. Waiver of refund of liability or expense  
 
Where a deduction has been allowed under the provisions of section 20 of this Act in respect of 
any liability or any expense incurred and the liability is waived or released or such expense is 
refunded in whole or in part, the amount of that liability or expense which is waived, released or 
refunded, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be income on the day on which such waiver, 
release or refund was made or given.  
 
PART III 
 
Ascertainment assessable income 
 
23. Basis for computing assessable income  
 
(1) Except as provided in this section, the income of any individual for each year of assessment 
from each source of his income (hereinafter referred to as “assessable income”) shall be the 
amount of the income of the year immediately preceding the year of assessment from each 
such source, notwithstanding that he may have ceased to possess that source or that the 
source may have ceased to produce income.  
 
(2) Where the relevant tax authority is satisfied that an individual makes, or intends to make up 
the accounts of a trade, business, profession or vocation carried on by him to some day other 
than the thirty first day of December, it shall direct that the assessable income from that 
source be computed on the amount of the gains or profits of the year ending on that day in 
the year preceding the year of assessment.  
 
(3) Where the assessable income of an individual from a trade, business, profession or vocation 
has been computed by reference to an account made up to a certain day, and that individual 
fails to make up an account to the corresponding day in the year following, the assessable 
income from that source both for the year of assessment in which the failure occurs and for 

 
345 
 
the two years of assessment next following shall be computed on such basis as the relevant 
tax authority in its discretion thinks fit.  
 
(4) Any basis adopted by a relevant tax authority under this section shall be subject to 
confirmation or amendment by the Board, with or without retrospective effect, if the 
individual is deemed to be resident in more than one territory for those three years of 
assessment, and such additional assessments, reductions or repayments shall be made so as 
to give effect to any determination of the Board under this subsection.  
 
24. New trades  
 
The assessable income of an individual from a trade, business, profession or vocation carried on 
by such individual in Nigeria, for its first year of assessment and the two following years of 
assessment (which years are in this subsection respectively referred to as “the first year”, “the 
second year” and “the third year”) shall be ascertained in accordance with the following 
provisions- 
 
(a) for the first year, the assessable income shall be the income from the date on which the 
individual commenced such trade, business, profession or vocation in Nigeria to the end 
of its first accounting period; 
 
(b) for the second year, the assessable income shall be the income from the first day after the 
trade or business’ first accounting period to the end of its second accounting period; and 
 
(c) for the third year and for each subsequent year thereafter, the assessable income shall be 
the profits from the day after the accounting period just ended. 
[2020 No. 1, s. 27] 
 
25. Cessation of trades, etc.  
 
Where an individual permanently ceases to carry on a trade, business, profession or vocation in 
Nigeria, such individual’s assessable income therefrom shall be the amount of income from the 
beginning of the accounting period to the date of cessation and the tax thereof shall be payable 
within three months from the date of cessation. 
[2020 No. 1, s. 28] 
 
26. Employment and pensions  
 
(1) With respect to income from an employment or pension which is derived, or deemed to be 
derived, from Nigeria, the assessable income of an individual shall be the amount of the 
income of the year of assessment.  
 
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) of this section, income from an employment shall be 
deemed to arise from day to day except to the extent that it is derived from any bonus, 
commission or allowance payable on one occasion only or at intervals exceeding one month, 
and to that extent it shall be deemed to be income- 

 
346 
 
(a) of the day on which it is paid; or  
 
(b) if it is paid after the cessation of the employment, of the last day of the employment 
including any terminal leave arising therefrom.  
 
27. Trusts and estates  
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Part of this Act, the assessable income of a 
trustee, or of an executor of the estate of a deceased individual, or of a beneficiary of a trust or 
estate for any year of assessment shall be the income of that person as determined under the 
provisions of the Second Schedule to this Act of the year preceding that year.  
[Second Schedule.] 
 
28. Itinerant workers  
 
The assessable income for any year of assessment of an itinerant worker shall be determined 
either under the provisions of sections 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27 of this Act or be the income of the 
year ending on the thirty first day of December within the year of assessment.  
 
29. Continuity of trades, etc.  
 
An individual carrying on a trade, business, profession or vocation, shall not be treated as having 
commenced or ceased so to do solely by reason of a change in the territory in which he is 
deemed to be resident from one year to another, or by reason of his becoming or ceasing to be a 
partner in a partnership if the nature of the trade carried on by that partnership is the same as that 
carried on by him before or after he became or ceased to be a partner therein, as the case may be.  
 
30. Apportionment of income  
 
Where in the case of a trade, business, profession or vocation it is necessary in order to arrive at 
the income of any year of assessment or other period to allocate or apportion to specific periods 
the income or loss of any period for which accounts have been made up, or to aggregate any such 
income or loss or any apportioned parts thereof, it shall be lawful to make such allocation, 
apportionment or aggregation, and any apportionment under this section shall be made in 
proportion to the number of days in the respective periods.  
 
31. Receipts and payment after cessation of trade, etc.  
 
Where after the date on which an individual has ceased to carry on a trade, business, profession 
or vocation in Nigeria, he or, after his death, his personal representative receives or pays any sum 
which would have been included in or deducted from his gain or profit from that trade, business, 
profession or vocation if it had been received or paid prior to that date, that sum shall be deemed 
for all purposes of this Act to have been received or paid by him, as the case may be, on the last 
day on which he carried on that trade, business, profession or vocation.  
 
 

 
347 
 
32. Ascertainment of chargeable income  
 
Where income tax is payable for any year of assessment on the chargeable income of an 
individual, other than a corporation sole or body of individuals, the amount of that chargeable 
income shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other enactment or law relating to 
the ascertainment of chargeable income, be the amount of the total income of that individual for 
that year, ascertained under the provisions of this Act, after any income exempted has been 
excluded therefrom and the deductions allowed by this Part of this Act have been made.  
 
33. Personal relief and relief for children, dependants  
 
(1) There shall be allowed a consolidation relief allowance of ₦200,000.00 subject to a 
minimum of 1 percent of gross income whichever is higher plus 20 per cent of the gross 
income and the balance shall be taxable in accordance with the Income table in the Sixth 
schedule to this Act.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(2) For the purposes of this Section, “gross income” means income from all sources less all non-
taxable income, income on which no further tax is payable, tax-exempt items listed in 
paragraph (2) of the Sixth Schedule and all allowable business expenses and capital 
allowance.  
[2020 No. 1, s. 29] 
 
(3) There shall be allowed a deduction of the annual amount of any premium paid by the 
individual during the year preceding the year of assessment to an insurance company in 
respect of insurance on his life or the life of his spouse, or of a contract for a deferred 
annuity on his own life or the life of his spouse.  
[2020 No. 1, s. 29] 
 
[Former (4) to (6) Deleted by 2019 No. 1, s. 27] 
 
(4) Where pursuant to a direction of the relevant tax authority a deduction is allowed under this 
section to a husband or wife and the deduction has not been claimed, it shall be allowed to 
the husband or wife, or to be apportioned between them as the relevant tax authority in its 
absolute discretion may decide.  
 
34. Deductions to be claimed  
 
Unless the relevant tax authority otherwise directs, no deduction under this Part of this Act shall 
be allowed to any person for a year of assessment unless claimed by him in writing in such form 
as the relevant tax authority may prescribe.  
 
35. Proof of claims  
 
(1) The relevant tax authority may require a claimant to a deduction under section 33 of this Act 
to produce such documentary evidence as may be available in support of any claim and in 

 
348 
 
the absence of that evidence or if that evidence is, in the opinion of the relevant tax authority 
inadequate, the relevant tax authority may refuse to allow the deduction or allow such part 
only of the amount claimed as the relevant tax authority may decide.  
 
(2) Notwithstanding any provision of this Act- 
 
(a) where a person has failed to produce documentary evidence in support of a claim to a 
deduction under section 33 of this Act, no objection to an assessment or, if the person is 
an employee, to any rate at which tax is required to be deducted from his remuneration 
under the provisions of this Act shall be valid on the grounds that the deduction, or the 
full amount thereof has not been allowed or taken into account by the relevant tax 
authority; and  
 
(b) where an individual claims a deduction under this Act for a year of assessment, or 
produces evidence in support of a claim previously made and not admitted or not 
admitted in full by the relevant tax authority within two years after the end of such year, 
such repayment or set-off of tax, or reduction in any assessment shall be made so as to 
give effect to any amount or additional amount of the deduction which the relevant tax 
authority is satisfied should properly be allowed.  
 
 
PART IV 
 
Ascertainment of total income 
 
36. Total income from all sources  
 
(1) The total income of an individual for any year of assessment shall be the amount of his total 
assessable income from all sources for that year, together with any addition thereto to be 
made in accordance with the provisions of the Fifth Schedule to this Act, less any deductions 
to be made or allowed in accordance with the provisions of subsection (2) of this section and 
of that Schedule.  
[Fifth Schedule.] 
 
Loss in trade, business, profession or vocation  
 
(2) There shall be deducted from the total assessable income of an individual- 
 
(a) the amount of a loss incurred by him during the year of assessment in the trade, business, 
profession or vocation:  
 
provided that no such deduction shall be made unless it is claimed in writing within 
twelve months after the end of the year of assessment;  
 
(b) the amount of a loss which the relevant tax authority is satisfied has been incurred by him 
in the trade, business, provision or vocation during any year preceding the year of 

 
349 
 
assessment which has not been allowed against his assessable income of a preceding 
year:  
 
Provided that- 
 
(i) in no circumstances shall the aggregate deduction from assessable income in 
respect of the loss, exceed the amount of the loss;  
 
(ii) a deduction under this paragraph for any year of assessment shall not exceed the 
amount, if any, of the assessable income included in the total income for that year 
of assessment, from the trade, business, profession or vocation in which the loss 
was incurred and shall be made as far as possible from such amount of such 
assessable income of the first year of assessment after that in which the loss was 
incurred, and, so far as it cannot be so made then from such amount of such 
assessable income of the next year of assessment, and so on;  
 
(iii) when land or buildings are let by an individual for the purposes of producing 
income and during any year of assessment the expenses deductible under the 
provisions of section 20 of this Act in ascertaining the gains or profits from that 
income exceed the amount of that income, the excess shall be treated as if it were a 
loss incurred by the individual in a trade or business carried on by him; and  
 
(iv) the period for carrying forward of any loss shall be limited to four years after which 
period any such loss shall lapse.  
 
(3) The amount of loss incurred by a person engaged in an agricultural trade or business shall be 
deducted as far as possible from the assessable profits of the first year of assessment after 
that in which the loss was incurred and so far as it cannot be so made, then from such 
amount of such assessable profits of the next year of assessment, and soon (without limit as 
to time) until the loss has been completely set off against the person‘s subsequent assessable 
profits.  
 
(4) For the purpose of subsection (2) of this section, the loss incurred during any year of 
assessment shall be computed by reference to the year ending on a day in that year of 
assessment which would have been adopted under subsection (2) of section 23 of this Act 
for the computation of assessable income of the following year of assessment if a profit had 
arisen.  
 
(5) Where under the provisions of section 30 of this Act for the purpose of computing the 
income of a period from a source chargeable with tax under this Act, being a period the 
income of which is assessable income from that source for any year, it has been necessary to 
allocate or apportion to specific periods which fall within that whole period both gains or 
profits and losses, then no deduction shall be made under the provisions of subsection (2) of 
this section in respect of the loss or apportioned part thereof referable to that specific period, 
except to the extent that the loss or part thereof exceeded the aggregate gains or profits 
apportioned to the remaining specific period or periods within that whole period.  

 
350 
 
(6) Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Act, where for all practical purposes the 
income of the taxpayer cannot be ascertained or records are not kept in such a manner as 
would enable proper assessment of income, then such a taxpayer shall be assessed on such 
terms and conditions as would be prescribed by the Minister in regulations by order of 
gazette under a presumptive tax regime.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
 
PART V 
 
Rate of tax and double taxation 
 
37. Charge of income tax  
 
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the income tax that may be payable on the chargeable 
income of an individual ascertained in accordance with the provisions of this Act shall, in respect 
of each year of assessment, be assessed at the rate or rates specified in the Sixth Schedule to this 
Act so however that where after all deductions allowable under this Act the individual has no 
chargeable income or where the tax payable on the chargeable income of that individual is less 
than 1 per cent of the total income of that individual, the individual shall be charged to tax at the 
rate of 1 per cent of his total income:  
[Sixth Schedule; 2011 No. 20.] 
 
Provided that minimum tax under this section or as provided for under the Sixth Schedule to this 
Act shall not apply to a person in any year of assessment where such person earns the National 
Minimum Wage or less from an employment. 
[2020 No. 1, s. 30] 
 
38. Avoidance of double taxation agreement  
[2011 No. 20] 
 
(1) Where the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has entered into agreement with 
the Government of any country outside Nigeria with a view to affording relief from double 
taxation in relation to tax imposed under the provisions of this Act, any tax of a similar 
character imposed by the laws of that country, and that it is expedient that the agreement 
have effect, the Agreement shall have effect “upon ratification by the National Assembly”.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(2) Where Agreements have effect by virtue of this section, any obligation as to secrecy in this 
Act or in any law of a territory subject to or incorporating the provisions of this Act shall not 
prevent the disclosure to an authorised officer of the government with which the Agreements 
are made of such information as is required to be disclosed under the Agreements.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(3) The Minister may make rules for carrying out the provisions of Agreements having effect 
under this section.  

 
351 
 
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(4) An order made under the provisions of subsection (1) of this section may include provisions 
for relief from tax for periods commencing or terminating before the making of the order 
and provisions as to income which is not itself liable to double taxation.  
 
(5) For the purpose of according relief in Nigeria from double taxation, the Agreements 
specified in the Seventh Schedule shall be deemed to have been made under the provisions 
of this section and to apply throughout Nigeria with effect from the year of assessment on 
the first day of January 1989 in the case of the United Kingdom and in the case of any other 
country, on such date as is specified in the agreement with that country.  
[Seventh Schedule; 2011 No. 20.] 
 
39. Method of calculating relief to be allowed for double taxation  
 
(1) The provisions of this section shall have effect where, under arrangements having effect 
under section 38 of this Act, foreign tax payable in respect of an income in the country with 
whom the arrangements are made is to be allowed as a credit against tax payable in respect 
of that income in Nigeria, and in this section “foreign tax” means any tax payable in that 
country which under the arrangements is to be so allowed.  
 
(2) The amount of the tax chargeable in respect of the income which is liable to both tax and 
foreign tax shall be reduced by the amount of the credit admissible under the terms of the 
arrangement:  
 
Provided that credit shall not be allowed against tax for any year or assessment unless the 
person entitled to the income is resident in Nigeria in that year.  
 
(3) The credit shall not exceed the amount which would be produced by computing, in 
accordance with the provisions of this Act, the amount of the income which is liable to both 
tax and foreign tax, and then charging it to tax at a rate ascertained by dividing the tax 
chargeable (before the deduction of any relief granted by this Part of this Act) on the total 
income of the individual entitled to the income by the amount of his total income.  
 
(4) Without prejudice to the provisions of subsection (3) of this section, the total credit to be 
allowed to an individual for any year of assessment for foreign tax under arrangements 
having effect under section 38 of this Act, shall not exceed the total tax payable by him for 
that year of assessment.  
 
(5) In computing the amount of the income- 
 
(a) no deduction shall be allowed in respect of foreign tax (whether in respect of the same or 
any other income);  
 
(b) where the tax chargeable depends on the amount received in Nigeria, that amount shall be 
increased by the appropriate amount of the foreign tax in respect of the income; and  

 
352 
 
(c) where the income includes a dividend, and under the arrangements foreign tax not 
chargeable directly or by deduction in respect of the dividend is to be taken into account 
in considering whether any, and if so what, credit is to be given against tax in respect of 
the dividend, the amount of the income shall be increased by the amount of the foreign 
tax not so chargeable which falls to be taken into account in computing the amount of the 
credit.  
 
(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (5) of this section, a deduction shall be 
allowed of any amount by which the foreign tax in respect of the income exceeds any credit 
given under the arrangements.  
 
(7) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (5) of this section shall apply to the computation of total 
income for the purposes of determining the rate mentioned in subsection (3) of this section, 
and shall apply thereto in relation to all income in respect of which credit falls to be given 
for foreign tax under arrangements for the time being in force under section 38 of this Act.  
 
(8) Credit shall not be allowed under the arrangements against tax chargeable in respect of the 
income of an individual for a year of assessment if he elects that credit shall not be allowed 
in the case of his income for that year.  
 
(9) A claim for an allowance by way of credit shall be made not later than two years after the 
end of the year of assessment, and in the event of dispute as to the amount allowable, the 
claim shall be subject to objection and appeal in like manner as an assessment.  
 
(10) Where the amount of a credit given under the arrangements is rendered excessive or 
insufficient by reason of any adjustment of the amount of any tax payable either in Nigeria 
or elsewhere, nothing in this Act or in any law of a territory, limiting the time for the making 
of assessments or claims for relief, shall apply to any assessment or claim to which the 
adjustment gives rise, being an assessment or claim made not later than two years from the 
time when all such assessments, adjustments and other determinations have been made, 
whether in Nigeria or elsewhere, as are material in determining whether any, and if so what, 
credit falls to be given.  
 
 
PART VI 
 
Persons chargeable and returns 
 
40. Persons chargeable and returns  
 
(1) A taxable person shall be chargeable to the tax- 
 
(a) in his own name; or  
 
(b) in the name of- 
 

 
353 
 
(i) a receiver, trustee, guardian, curator or committee having the direction, control or 
management of property or concern on his behalf; or  
 
(ii) a person treated as his agent under section 4 of this Act or declared to be his agent 
under section 50 (1) of this Act,  
 
in like manner and to the like amount as the taxable person would be chargeable.  
 
(2) A person in whose name a taxable person is chargeable to tax shall be answerable for all 
matters within his competence which are required to be done by virtue of this section for the 
assessment of the income of the taxable person and payment of any tax charged thereon.  
 
(3) Where two or more persons act in the capacity of trustees they may be charged jointly or 
severally with the tax to which they are chargeable in that capacity and shall be jointly and 
severally liable for payment of the tax.  
 
41. Returns by taxable person  
 
(1) For each year of assessment, a taxable person shall, without notice or demand therefor, file a 
return of income in the prescribed form and containing the prescribed information with the 
tax authority of the State in which the taxable person is deemed to be a resident together 
with a true and correct statement in writing containing- 
 
(a) the amount of income from every source of the year preceding the year of assessment 
computed in accordance with the provisions of this Act and rules or regulations made 
thereunder; and  
 
(b) such particulars as by the return may be required for the purpose of this Act and rules or 
regulations made thereunder with respect to any such income, allowance, relief, 
deduction or otherwise as may be material for that purpose.  
 
(2) The form of return shall contain a declaration which shall be by or on behalf of the taxable 
person that the return contains a true and correct statement of the income computed in 
accordance with the provisions of this Act and rules or regulations made thereunder or that 
particulars given in the return are true and complete.  
 
(3) A taxable person shall file with the relevant tax authority the returns as stipulated in this 
section within 90 days from the commencement of every year of assessment.  
 
(4) A written return, statement or an information affecting the liability to tax of an individual for 
a year of assessment made or given by a person to a tax authority may be treated as having 
been given to another tax authority in the territory of which that individual is deemed to be 
resident for that year and, if an error or omission in the return, statement or an information 
constitutes an offence under the income tax law of that other tax authority, proceedings may 
be taken by that other tax authority in respect of that offence as though the return, statement 
or information had been made or given to that other tax authority in the first instance.  

 
354 
 
42. Place of an offence  
 
Where failure to comply with a requirement lawfully made by a tax authority of a territory under 
a provision of this Act constitutes an offence by virtue of the provision of an enactment of that 
territory, then the offence shall be deemed to have been committed at the place from which the 
notice of that requirement was issued by that tax authority, or at the place where the person 
charged with the offence resides or at such other place as that tax authority may decide.  
 
43. Returns not to be filed where income is ₦30,000 or less  
 
Notwithstanding that a tax authority requires a taxable person to file a return containing the 
amount of his income for each year of assessment, no return of income shall be filed by a person 
whose only source of income in any year of assessment is employment in which he earns 
₦30,000 or less from that source.  
[1998 No. 19.] 
 
44. Self-assessment by individual  
 
A taxable person required by this Act to file a return of income shall in the return calculate the 
amount of tax payable in the form as may be prescribed by the Minister by order of gazette.  
[2011 No. 20] 
 
45. Bonus for early filing of self-assessment return  
 
A person who files a return under sections 41 and 44 of this Act within the time specified for 
filing of the return shall, if there is no default in the payment arrangement, be granted a bonus of 
1 % of the tax payable.  
[1996 No. 31.] 
 
46. Power to call for further returns  
 
The relevant authority may give notice in writing to a person when and as often as it thinks 
necessary requiring him to deliver within a reasonable time limited by such notice fuller or 
further returns respecting any matter as to which a return is required or prescribed by this Act.  
 
47. Power to call for returns, books, documents and information  
 
(1) For the purpose of obtaining full information in respect of the income or gain of a person, 
the relevant tax authority may give notice to the person requiring him, within the time 
limited by the notice, to- 
 
(a) complete and deliver to the relevant tax authority, any return specified in the notice;  
 
(b) attend personally before an officer of the relevant tax authority for examination with 
respect to any matter relating to such income gains;  
 

 
355 
 
(c) produce or cause to be produced for examination at the place and time stated in the notice 
which time may be from day-to-day for such period as the relevant tax authority may 
consider necessary, for the purpose of the examination of any book, document, account 
and return which the relevant tax authority may deem necessary; or  
 
(d) give orally or in writing any other information including a name and address specified in 
the notice:  
 
Provided that a person engaged in banking shall not be required to disclose any information 
unless a disclosure is required in a letter signed by the chairman of the relevant tax authority.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(2) For the purpose of paragraphs (a) to (d) of subsection (1) of this section, the time limited by 
a notice shall not be less than seven days from the date of service of the notice, so however 
that an officer of the relevant tax authority not below the rank of a Chief Inspector of Taxes 
may act in any of the cases stipulated in subsection (1) (c) or (d) of this section, without 
giving any of the required notices set out in this section.  
 
(3) A person engaged in banking in Nigeria who contravenes the provisions of this section is, in 
respect of each offence, liable on conviction to a fine of ₦500,000 in the case of a body 
corporate, and a fine of ₦50,000 in the case of an individual.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
(4) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section or in any other provisions of this Act 
shall be construed as precluding the relevant tax authority from verifying by tax audit any 
matter relating to the income or gains of a person or any matter relating to entries in any 
book, document, account or return as the relevant tax authority may from time to time 
specify in any guideline by the relevant tax authority.  
 
48. Disclosure and procurement of information  
 
(1) Where a tax authority is in possession of any information, document or record relating to an 
individual which in the interest of the public revenue in Nigeria should be disclosed or 
transferred to the Board, that information, document or record shall be disclosed or 
transferred notwithstanding any provision as to secrecy contained in any income tax law of a 
territory.  
 
(2) A member of the relevant tax authority, its secretary and any person employed in the offices 
of the relevant tax authority shall not disclose any information relating to the income, tax or 
personal circumstances of any person which has come into his possession in the course of 
his duties except as may be expedient 
 
(a) in any legal proceeding arising from this, Act; or (b) to any tax authority; or  
 
(b) in accordance with any provision of an arrangement, with respect to taxes, made with any 
other country.  
 

 
356 
 
(3) Any information disclosed to a tax authority pursuant to subsection (2) of this section shall 
thereafter be subject to the provisions of that subsection and to any secrecy provisions of the 
income tax law administered by that authority.  
 
(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1), (2) and (3) of this section, a tax authority may, 
for the purpose of obtaining information in respect of the income or personal circumstances 
of an individual, give notice to any person to deliver the information including a name and 
an address specified therein within the time limited by the notice.  
 
49. Information to be delivered by bankers  
 
(1) A person engaged in banking shall require that a person intending to open a bank account for 
the purposes of the person’s business operations shall provide a tax identification number as 
a precondition for opening or continue operating of such bank account. 
[2019 No. 1, s. 28] 
 
(2) Without prejudice to section 48 of this Act, a person engaged in banking shall prepare a 
return at the end of each month specifying the names and addresses of new customers of the 
bank and shall not later than the seventh day of the next following month deliver the return 
to a tax authority of the area where the bank operates, or where such customer is a company, 
to the Federal Inland Revenue Service.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(3) Subject to subsection (1) of this section, the relevant tax authority may, for the purpose of 
obtaining information relative to taxation, give notice to a person, including a person 
engaged in banking business in Nigeria to provide within the time stipulated in the notice, 
information including the name and address of any person specified in the notice: 
[2011 No. 20.] 
Provided that a person engaged in banking business in Nigeria shall not be required to 
disclose any further information under this section unless the disclosure is required by a 
notice signed by the chairman of the relevant tax authority.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(4) A person engaged in banking in Nigeria who contravenes the provisions of this section is, in 
respect of each offence, liable on conviction to a fine of ₦500,000 in the case of a body 
corporate, and a fine of ₦50,000 in the case of an individual.  
 
(5) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section or in any other provision of this Act shall 
preclude the relevant tax authority from verifying by tax audit any matter relating to the 
profits of a company or any matter relating to entries in any book, document, account or 
return as the relevant tax authority may, from time to time, specify in its guidelines.  
 
50. Power to appoint agent  
 
(1) The relevant tax authority may by notice in writing appoint a person to be the agent of 
another person and the person so declared as agent shall be the agent of that person for the 

 
357 
 
purposes of this Act, and may be required to pay tax which is or will be payable by the 
person from any money which may be held by him for, or due by or to or become due by 
him to the person whose agent he has been declared to be, and in default of that payment the 
tax shall be recoverable from him.  
 
(2) For the purposes of this section, the relevant tax authority may require any person to give 
information as to any money, fund or other asset which may be held by him for, or of any 
money due from him to any person.  
 
(3) The provisions of this Act with respect to objections and appeals shall apply to any notice 
given under this section as though that notice were an assessment.  
 
51. Returns to be deemed to be furnished with due authority  
 
A return, statement or form purporting to be furnished under this Part of this Act by or on behalf 
of any person shall for all purposes be deemed to have been furnished by that person or by his 
authority, as the case may be, unless the contrary is proved, and any person signing any such 
return, statement or form shall be deemed to be cognisant of all matters therein.  
 
52. Books of account  
 
(1) If a taxable person fails or refuses to keep books of accounts which, in the opinion of the 
relevant tax authority, are adequate for the purposes of the tax- 
 
(a) such a taxable person other than those in salary employment shall be liable on conviction 
to a penalty of ₦50,000 for individuals and ₦500,000 for corporate entities; and  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(b) the relevant tax authority may by notice in writing direct the person to keep such records, 
books and accounts, in such form and in such language as may be specified in the notice 
and, subject to the provisions of subsection (2) of this section, the person shall keep the 
records, books and accounts as so directed.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(2) A direction of the relevant tax authority made under this paragraph shall be subject to 
objection and appeal in like manner as an assessment, except that any decision of the Appeal 
Commissioners may confirm or modify such direction.  
 
53. Power to enter and search premises, etc.  
 
(1) Where in respect of a trade, vocation, profession or business carried on in Nigeria by an 
individual (whether or not part of the operations is carried on outside Nigeria), the relevant 
tax authority- 
 
(a) is satisfied that there is reasonable ground for suspecting that an offence involving any 
form of total or partial non-disclosure of information, or any irregularity or an offence in 

 
358 
 
connection with or in relation to tax has been committed; and  
[Eighth Schedule.] 
 
(b) is of the opinion that evidence of the offence or irregularity is to be found in the premises, 
the registered office, or any other office or place of management of the trade, vocation, 
profession or business or in the residence of the principal officer, factor, agent or 
representative of the individual,  
 
the relevant tax authority may authorise any of its officers to enter, if necessary by force, the 
premises, registered office or the place of management or the residence of the individual, 
factor, agent or representative of the individual, at any time from the date of the authorisation 
and conduct a search.  
 
(2) An authority to enter the premises, registered office, place of management or residence of an 
individual, factor or agent of the individual, to conduct a search, shall be in the form 
contained in the Eighth Schedule to this Act, and the authority shall be sufficient warrant to 
search, seize and remove any records and documents found on such premises, office or place 
of management or residence of the individual, his factor or agent whether or not, belonging 
to that individual, factor, agent or the business.  
 
(3) On entering a premises with a warrant under this section, the officer may seize and remove 
anything whatsoever found therein which he has reasonable cause to believe may be 
required for the purposes of arriving at a fair and correct tax chargeable on the individual or 
as evidence for the purposes of a proceeding in respect of such an offence as is mentioned in 
subsection (1) of this section.  
 
(4) For the purposes of this section, an officer authorised by the relevant tax authority to execute 
a warrant of search under this section may call to his assistance a police officer, and it shall 
be the duty of the police officer when so required to aid and assist in the execution of a 
warrant for the purpose of obtaining an information on the tax charged or to be charged on 
the individual or of the proceeding in respect of an offence referred to in subsection (1) of 
this section.  
 
(5) Where an entry to a premises has been made with a warrant under this section and the 
officer making the entry has seized anything under the authority of the warrant, he shall, 
immediately before the seizure, if required by any person appearing to be the custodian of 
those things seized, provide that person with the list of items seized or surrendered.  
 
(6) An individual on whom a warrant under this section is served shall- 
 
(a) cooperate fully with any person authorised to conduct a search by allowing him easy 
access to the premises to be searched and to the items or documents that may be required 
for the investigation;  
 
(b) answer all questions and queries put to him in the course of the search;  
 

 
359 
 
(c) facilitate the removal of all items that may be required to assist the investigation  
 
(7) A person on whom a warrant of search is served and who refuses to cooperate with the 
person or persons or engages in an act or acts resulting in abuse, physical assault or similar 
behaviour is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of ₦5,000 or to 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or to both such fine and imprisonment.  
 
(8) A person may, before, during or after a warrant of search is or has been executed on him, be 
called upon to attend an interview before an officer of the relevant tax authority, in 
connection with the activities of the trade or business of the person as would enable the 
relevant tax authority to arrive at a fair and correct tax liability of the person.  
 
(9) In this section, “warrant” means the warrant as is mentioned under subsection (2) of this 
section.  
 
 
PART VII 
 
Assessments 
 
54. Assessment of income tax  
 
(1) The relevant tax authority shall proceed to assess every taxable person chargeable with 
income tax as soon as may be, after the time allowed to the person for the delivery of the 
return provided for in section 41 of this Act, or otherwise as it appears to the relevant tax 
authority practicable to do so.  
 
(2) Where a taxable person has delivered a return, the relevant tax authority may- 
 
(a) accept the return and make an assessment accordingly; or  
 
(b) refuse to accept the return and, to the best of its judgement, determine the amount of the 
assessable, total or chargeable income of that person and make an assessment 
accordingly.  
 
(3) Where a taxable person has not delivered a return within the time allowed and the relevant 
tax authority is of the opinion that tax is chargeable on that person, the relevant tax authority 
may, according to the best of its judgement, determine the amount of the assessable, total or 
chargeable income and make an assessment accordingly, but that assessment shall not affect 
any liability otherwise incurred by such person by reason of his failure or neglect to deliver a 
return.  
 
(4) Nothing in this section shall prevent the relevant tax authority from making assessment on a 
taxable person before the expiration of the time within which the person is required to 
deliver a return or give notice of his income under the provisions of section 41 of this Act, if 
any officer of the relevant tax authority considers the assessment to be necessary for any 

 
360 
 
reason of urgency.  
 
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, no assessment to income tax for a year of 
assessment shall be made by the relevant tax authority on an employee with respect to his 
emolument or other income if that tax is recoverable by deduction under the provisions of 
section 81 of this Act unless, within six years after the end of that year- 
 
(a) he applies to the relevant tax authority so to be assessed, whether in connection with any 
claim to repayment of tax or otherwise; or  
 
(b) the relevant tax authority considers the assessment to be necessary or expedient so as to 
arrive at the correct amount of the income tax to be charged on or to be payable by the 
employee for that year.  
 
55. Additional assessment  
 
(1) If the relevant tax authority discovers or is of the opinion at any time that a taxable person 
liable to income tax has not been assessed or has been assessed at a less amount than that 
which ought to have been charged, the relevant tax authority may, within the year of 
assessment or within six years after the expiration thereof and as often as may be necessary 
assess the taxable person at such amount or additional amount as ought to have been 
charged, and the provisions of this Act as to notice of assessment, appeal and other 
proceedings  shall  apply to  that  assessment  or additional  assessment  and  the tax 
thereunder.  
 
(2) For the purpose of computing under subsection (1) of this section the amount or the 
additional amount which ought to have been charged, all relevant facts consistent with 
paragraph (b) of the proviso to section 66 (2) of this Act shall be taken into account whether 
or not known when a previous assessment or an additional assessment on the same taxable 
person for the same year was being made or could have been made:  
 
Provided that where any form of fraud, wilful default or neglect has been committed by or 
on behalf of a taxable person in connection with any tax imposed under this Act, the relevant 
tax authority may at any time and as often as may be necessary assess that taxable person at 
such amount or additional amount as may be necessary for the purpose of making good any 
loss of tax attributable to the fraud, wilful default or neglect.  
 
56. List of persons assessed, etc.  
 
(1) The relevant tax authority shall as soon as possible, prepare a list of taxable persons assessed 
to income tax under this Act.  
 
(2) The list (in this Act referred to as “the assessment list”) shall contain the names and 
addresses of the taxable persons assessed to income tax, the name and address of any person 
in whose name the taxable person is chargeable, the amount of the assessable, total or 
chargeable income on which, as the case may be, the tax is computed, the amount of the 

 
361 
 
income tax charged, and such other particulars as may be prescribed by the relevant tax 
authority.  
 
(3) Where complete copies of all notices of assessment and of all notices amending assessments 
are filed in the offices of the relevant tax authority, they shall constitute the assessment lists 
for the purposes of this Act.  
 
(4) In the case of an employee from whom tax is recoverable by deduction from his emoluments 
under the provisions of section 81 of this Act, the relevant tax authority may, from time to 
time, prescribe- 
 
(a) the form in which a record of his assessable and chargeable income, and of the tax so 
recovered from him, shall be maintained in the offices of the relevant tax authority;  
 
(b) the form in which his employer shall maintain a like record; and  
 
(c) the form in which his employer shall account to the relevant tax authority for the tax so 
deducted.  
 
(5) The employer shall produce the record maintained by him pursuant to subsection (4) of this 
section for examination by the relevant tax authority within 21 days of notice given to that 
effect by the relevant tax authority, and allow a duly authorised officer of the relevant tax 
authority access to the record and accounts or vouchers relating thereto in the premises of 
the employer at all reasonable times.  
 
(6) For the purpose of this section, a notice may be addressed in writing to the employer and 
served on him, or be given in respect of an employer or class of employers by publication in 
the relevant Gazette.  
 
57. Service of notice of assessment  
 
The relevant tax authority shall cause to be served on or sent by registered post or Courier 
Service or Electronic Mail to each taxable person, or person in whose name a taxable person is 
chargeable, whose name appears in the assessment lists, a notice stating the amount of any 
assessable, total or chargeable income, the tax charged, the place at which payment should be 
made, and setting out the rights of that person as contained in sections 58 and 59 of this Act.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
58. Revision in case of objection  
 
(1) If a person disputes an assessment, he may apply to the relevant tax authority by notice of 
objection in writing delivered in person, by courier service or via electronic mail, to review 
and revise the assessment, and the application shall state precisely the grounds of objection 
to the assessment and shall be made within thirty days from the date of service of the notice 
of the assessment.  
[2019 No. 1, s. 29] 

 
362 
 
(2) On receipt of a notice of objection, the relevant tax authority may require the person giving 
that notice to furnish such particulars and to produce such books or other documents as the 
relevant tax authority may deem necessary, and may summon any person who may be able 
to give information which is material to the determination of the objection to attend for 
examination by an officer of the relevant tax authority on oath or otherwise.  
 
(3) If a person who has objected to an assessment agrees with the relevant tax authority as to the 
correct amount of the tax chargeable, the assessment shall be amended accordingly and 
notice of the tax chargeable shall be served on the person:  
 
Provided that, if an applicant for revision under the provisions of this subsection fails to 
agree with the relevant tax authority on the amount of the tax chargeable, the relevant tax 
authority shall give notice of refusal to amend the assessment as desired by that person and 
may revise the assessment to such amount as the relevant tax authority may, according to the 
best of its judgement, determine and give notice of the revised assessment and of the tax 
payable together with notice of refusal to amend the revised assessment and, where 
requisite, any reference in this Act to an assessment or to an additional assessment shall be 
treated as revised under the provisions of this proviso.  
 
(4) If an employee from whom tax is recovered by deduction from his emoluments under the 
provisions of section 81 of this Act claims that inadequate relief under Part III of this Act 
has been taken into account in determining the rate or rates at which the deduction have been 
or is to be made- 
 
(a) a determination of the relevant tax authority on the claim shall be conclusive with respect 
to those rates for the year of assessment concerned; and  
(b) if the employee is aggrieved by that determination he may apply to the relevant tax 
authority to be assessed to income tax as soon as may be, after his assessable income for 
that year can be finally ascertained, and the assessment shall be subject to the provisions 
of this Act with respect to objections and appeals.  
 
59. Errors and defects in assessment and notice  
 
(1) No assessment, warrant or other proceeding purporting to be made in accordance with the 
provisions of this Act shall be quashed, or deemed to be void or voidable, for want of form, 
or be affected by reason of a mistake, defect or omission therein, if the same is in substance 
and effect in conformity with or according to the intent and meaning of this Act and if the 
person assessed or intended to be assessed or affected thereby is designated therein to 
common intent and understanding.  
 
(2) An assessment shall not be impeached or affected- 
 
(a) by reason of a mistake therein as to- 
 
(i) the name of a taxable person or of a person whose name a taxable person is 
chargeable; or  

 
363 
 
 
(ii) the description of income; or  
 
(iii) the amount of any income tax charged or shown to be payable;  
 
(b) by reason of any variance between the assessment and the notice thereof;  
 
Provided that in the case of an assessment, the notice thereof shall be duly served on the 
taxable person intended to be charged or the person in whose name the taxable person is 
chargeable and the notice shall contain, in substance and effect, the particulars on which 
the assessment is made.  
 
 
PART VIII 
 
Appeals 
 
60. Establishment of body of Appeal Commissioners  
 
The Tax Appeal Tribunal established pursuant to section 59 of the Federal Inland Revenue 
Service (Establishment) Act, 2007 shall have the powers to entertain all cases arising from the 
operations of this Act.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
 
61 to 67 deleted by 2011 No. 20  
 
 
PART IX 
 
Collection, recovery and repayment of tax 
 
68. Payment of income tax  
 
(1) Income tax charged by an assessment which is not or has not been the subject of an 
objection or appeal, shall be payable, after the deduction of any amount to be set-off for the 
purposes of collection, or any amount deposited against the tax, at the place stated in the 
notice of assessment within two months after the date of service of that notice:  
 
Provided that:  
 
(a) if the period of two months expires before the fourteenth day of December within the 
year of assessment for which the income tax has been charged, and the aggregate of the 
tax to be deducted as aforesaid and of any income tax paid for that year within that period 
amounts to not less than one half of the tax so charged, then payment of any balance of 
such tax may be made not later than that day;  

 
364 
 
(b) the relevant tax authority in its discretion may extend the time within which payment is to 
be made.  
 
(2) Collection of income tax in a case where notice of an objection or an appeal has been given 
by or on behalf of the person shall remain in abeyance until the objection or appeal is 
determined, except that the relevant tax authority may enforce payment of that portion, if 
any, of the tax which is not in dispute.  
 
(3) On the determination of an objection or appeal, the relevant tax authority shall serve notice 
on the taxable person of the tax chargeable as so determined and that tax shall be payable 
within one month of the date of service of the notice:  
 
Provided that, if the period of one month ends before the fourteenth day of December within 
the year of assessment and the conditions specified in paragraph (a) of the proviso to 
subsection (1) of this section are otherwise satisfied with respect to the amount, of the tax 
chargeable as so determined, then any balance of that tax to be paid may be paid not later 
than that day.  
 
(4) Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions of this section, if in a particular case the 
relevant tax authority has reason to believe that any income tax charged by an assessment 
may not be recovered, by reason of the person charged leaving Nigeria or otherwise, the 
relevant tax authority may give notice to pay the amount of the tax or to give security to the 
satisfaction of the relevant tax authority for payment thereof, and if the payment is not made, 
or security so given, within that time, the amount of the tax shall be recoverable forthwith 
for the purpose of this subsection, and the relevant tax authority may, if necessary, assess 
any taxable person for any year of assessment at any time during the preceding year of 
assessment.  
 
69. Deduction of tax on rent  
 
(1) Where a rent becomes due or payable to a person, the payer of the rent shall, at the date 
when the rent is paid or credited, whichever first occurs, shall deduct therefrom tax at the 
rate prescribed in subsection (2) of this section and shall forthwith pay over to the relevant 
tax authority the amount so deducted.  
 
(2) The rate at which tax is to be deducted for the purpose of this section shall be 10 per cent of 
gross rent.  
 
(3) In accounting for the tax so deducted to the relevant tax authority, the payer shall state in 
writing the following particulars which shall accompany the remittance, that is- 
 
(a) the gross amount of the rent;  
 
(b) the amount of tax being accounted for;  
 
(c) the name and address of the recipient and the period for which the rent has been paid or 

 
365 
 
credited; and  
 
(d) the address or accurate description of the location of the property concerned.  
 
(4) For the purpose of this section, the relevant tax authority shall be determined in accordance 
with the provisions of section 2 of this Act.  
 
(5) The payer of a rent in subsection (1) of this section refers to a company (corporate or 
unincorporated) and includes Government Ministries and Departments, parastatals, statutory 
bodies, institutions and other established organisations approved for the operation of Pay As 
You Earn system, whether or not liable itself to tax under any enactment or law relating to 
taxation of income in Nigeria or elsewhere.  
 
(6) The tax, when paid over to the relevant tax authority, shall be the final tax due from a non-
resident recipient of the payments.  
[1996 No. 30.] 
 
70. Deduction of tax on interest, etc.  
 
(1) Where a payment, such as interest or royalty, becomes due or payable to a person, the payer 
at the date when the payment is made or credited, whichever first occurs, shall deduct 
therefrom tax at the rate prescribed in subsection (2) of this section and shall forthwith pay 
over to the relevant tax authority the amount so deducted.  
 
(2) The rate at which tax is to be deducted under this section shall be 10 per cent of gross 
interest and 5 per cent of gross royalty.  
[1996 No. 30.] 
 
(3) In accounting for the tax so deducted to the relevant tax authority, the payer shall state in 
writing the following particulars, that is- 
 
(a) the gross amount of the payment;  
 
(b) the name and address of the recipient; and  
 
(c) the amount of the tax being accounted for.  
 
(4) For the purpose of this section, the relevant tax authority shall be determined in accordance 
with the provisions of section 2 of this Act, except in the case of savings interest where the 
relevant tax authority shall be that where the branch of the bank paying the interest is 
situated.  
 
(5) The payer in subsection (1) of this section refers to any company (corporate or 
unincorporated), including Government Ministries and Departments, any person engaged in 
banking or charged with the administration of parastatals, statutory bodies, institutions and 
other established organisations approved for the operation of Pay As You Earn System 

 
366 
 
whether or not liable to tax under any enactment or law relating to taxation of income in 
Nigeria or elsewhere.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(6) The provisions of this section shall not apply to payments of interest by any person engaged 
in banking where the interest is due and payable on pass-book savings account, which is less 
than ₦50,000.  
 
(7) The tax, when paid over to the relevant tax authority, shall be the final tax due on the 
income.  
[1996 No. 30.1996 No. 32.] 
 
71. Deduction of tax on dividend  
 
(1) Where a dividend or such other distribution becomes due from or payable by a Nigerian 
company to a person, the company making the payment shall at the date when the amount is 
paid or credited, whichever first occurs, deduct therefrom tax at the rate prescribed under 
subsection (2) of this section and shall forthwith pay over to the relevant tax authority the 
amount so deducted.  
 
(2) The rate at which tax is to be deducted in this section shall be 10 per cent.  
[1996 No. 30.] 
 
(3) In accounting for the tax so deducted to the relevant tax authority, the company shall state in 
writing the following particulars, that is- 
 
(a) the gross amount of the dividend or such other distribution;  
 
(b) the name and address of the recipient; and  
 
(c) the accounting period or periods of the company in respect of the profits of which the 
dividend or distribution is declared to be payable and the date on which payment is due.  
 
(4) For the purpose of this section, the relevant tax authority shall be determined in accordance 
with the provisions of section 2 of this Act.  
 
(5) The tax, when paid over to the relevant tax authority, shall be the final tax due on the 
income.  
[1996 No. 30. 1996 No. 32.] 
 
72. Deduction of tax on director’s fees  
 
(1) Where any payment of director's fees becomes due or payable to a person, the payer at the 
date when the payment is made or credited, whichever first occurs, shall deduct therefrom 
tax at the rate prescribed in subsection (2) of this section and shall forthwith pay over to the 
relevant tax authority the amount so deducted.  

 
367 
 
(2) The rate at which tax is to be deducted for the purpose of this section shall be 10 per cent.  
[1996 No. 30.] 
 
(3) In accounting for the tax to be deducted to the relevant tax authority, the payer shall state in 
writing the following particulars, that is- 
 
(a) the gross amount of the payment;  
 
(b) the name and address of the recipient; and  
 
(c) the amount of tax being accounted for.  
 
(4) For the purpose of this section, the relevant tax authority shall be determined in accordance 
with the provisions of section 2 of this Act.  
 
(5) The payer in subsection (1) of this section refers to any company (corporate and 
unincorporated) including Government Ministries and Departments, parastatals, statutory 
bodies, institutions and other established organisations approved for the operation of Pay As 
You Earn System whether or not liable itself to tax under any enactment or law relating to 
taxation of income in Nigeria or elsewhere.  
 
73. Deduction of tax at source  
 
(1) Income tax assessable on a person whether or not an assessment has been made, shall, if the 
relevant tax authority so directs, be recoverable from any payment made by any person to 
that person.  
 
(2) A direction under subsection (1) of this section- 
 
(a) may apply to a person specified in the direction either with respect to a person or persons 
or a body of individuals, liable to pay tax;  
 
(b) shall be in writing addressed to the person or be published in the State Gazette and shall 
specify the nature of payments and the rate at which tax is to be deducted.  
 
(3) In determining the rate of tax to be applied to any payment made to a person, the relevant 
tax authority may take into account- 
 
(a) any assessable income of that person for the year arising from any other source 
chargeable to income tax under this Act; and  
 
(b) any income tax or arrears of tax payable by that person for any of the six preceding years 
of assessment.  
 
(4) Income tax recovered under the provisions of this section by deduction from payments made 
to a person shall be set-off for the purposes of collection against tax charged on that person 

 
368 
 
by an assessment, except that any excess payment arising from compliance with sections 69, 
70, 71, 72 of this Act shall be refunded by the relevant tax authority within 90 days except if 
it is a final tax after the assessment has been fully filed, with the option of setting off against 
future tax pay by the payer.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(5) A person required under any provision of the Act to make a deduction from payments made 
to a person shall account to the relevant tax authority in such a manner as the relevant tax 
authority may prescribe for the deduction so made.  
 
(6) The Minister on the advice of the Board may, from time to time, make regulations for 
carrying out the provisions of this section.  
 
74. Penalty for failure to deduct tax  
 
(1) Any person or body corporate who, being obliged to deduct tax under section 69, 70, 71, 72 
or 73 of this Act, fails to deduct, or having deducted, fails to remit such deductions to the 
relevant tax authority within thirty days from the date the amount was deducted or the time 
the duty to deduct arose, shall be liable to a penalty of an amount of 10 per cent fine of 
₦5,000 or 10 per cent of the amount of the tax due, whichever is higher, in addition to the 
amount of tax deductible or deducted plus interest at the prevailing commercial rate.  
[2019 No. 1, s. 30.] 
 
(2) The Accountant-General of the Federation shall have power to deduct at source, from its 
budgetary allocation, un-remitted taxes due from any Ministry, Department or Government 
Agency and transfer such deduction to the relevant State upon request by such State.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
75. Application of provision  
 
(1) The provisions of sections 69, 70, 71 and 72 of this Act shall apply respectively to dividend, 
interest, rent and royalty forming part of the income or profit exempted from tax under any 
section of this Act and the Third Schedule thereto:  
[Third Schedule.] 
 
Provided however, that dividend, interest, rent or royalty derived from outside Nigeria and 
brought into Nigeria through Government approved channels shall remain exempted.  
 
(2) For the purpose of this section, “Government approved channels” means- 
 
(a) the Central Bank of Nigeria;  
 
(b) any bank or corporate body appointed by the Minister as authorised dealer under Foreign 
Exchange (Monitoring and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act or any enactment replacing 
that Act.  
[Cap. F34.] 
 

 
369 
 
76. Penalty for non-payment of income tax  
 
(1) If any income charged by any assessment is not paid within the periods prescribed in section 
68 of this Act, a sum equal to 10 per cent per annum of the tax shall be added thereto, and 
the provisions of this Act relating to the recovery and collection of tax shall apply to the 
recovery and collection of that sum.  
 
(2) The relevant tax authority shall serve a demand note on the taxable person or the person in 
whose name the taxable person is chargeable and, if payment is not made within one month 
from the date of the service of the demand note, the relevant tax authority may proceed to 
enforce payment as hereinafter provided.  
 
(3) A penalty imposed under this section shall not be deemed to be part of the tax paid for the 
purpose of claiming relief under any provision of this Act.  
 
(4) A person who without lawful justification or excuse, the proof whereof shall lie on such 
person, fails to pay the income tax within the period of one month prescribed in subsection 
(2) of this section, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.  
 
77. Interest for late payment of income tax  
 
The tax due from a taxable person shall carry interest on annual basis at bank base lending rate 
from the date when the tax becomes payable until it is paid.  
[2011 No. 20] 
 
78. Action for income tax by the relevant tax authority  
 
(1) Income tax may be sued for and recovered in a court of competent jurisdiction by the 
relevant tax authority in its official name with full costs of action from the person charged 
therewith as a debt due to the Government of the Federation or to the relevant tax authority.  
 
(2) For the purposes of this section a Court of competent jurisdiction shall include a magistrate’s 
court, which court is hereby invested with the necessary jurisdiction, provided that the 
amount claimed in any action does not exceed the amount of the jurisdiction of the 
magistrate concerned with respect to action for debt.  
 
(3) In an action brought under subsection (1) of this section, the production of a certificate 
signed by a person duly authorised by the chairman of the relevant tax authority giving the 
name and address of the defendant and the amount of income tax due, shall be sufficient 
evidence of the amount so due and sufficient authority for the court to give judgment for the 
said amount.  
 
79. Remission of penalty  
 
The relevant tax authority may, for any good cause shown, remit either before or after judgment 
the whole or any part of the penalty due under section 76 of this Act.  

 
370 
 
80. Remission of tax  
 
The Governor of the State may, on the recommendation of the Commissioner responsible for 
finance acting on the advice of the relevant tax authority, remit wholly or in part, any tax payable 
under this Act if satisfied that it is just and equitable so to do.  
 
81. P.A.Y.E.  
 
(1) Income tax chargeable on an employee by an assessment whether or not the assessment has 
been made, shall, if the relevant tax authority so directs, be recoverable from any emolument 
paid, or from any payment made on account of the emolument, by the employer to the 
employee.  
 
(2) Every employer shall be required to file a return with the relevant tax authority of all 
emoluments paid to its employees, not later than 31st January of every year in respect of all 
employees in its employment in the preceding year.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(3) Any employer who contravenes the provisions of this section shall be liable on conviction to 
a penalty of ₦500,000 in the case of a body corporate, and ₦50,000 in the case of an 
individual.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(4) Income tax recovered under the provisions of this section by deduction from payment made 
to a person shall be set-off for the purposes of collection against tax charged on that person 
by an assessment except that any excess payment arising from compliance with sections 69, 
70, 71, 72 of this section of this Act shall be refunded by the relevant tx authority within 90 
days after the assessment has been duly filed, with the option of setting off against future tax 
by the tax payer.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(5) A direction under subsection (1) of this section shall be in writing addressed to an employer 
or be published in the State Gazette, and shall specify the emolument of an employee or 
class of employees to which it refers and the amount or amounts of income tax to be 
deducted, whether by reference to tax tables issued by the relevant tax authority or 
otherwise.  
 
(6) In arriving at the amount of income tax to be deducted from any payment of or on account of 
the emolument to an employee, the relevant tax authority shall secure so far as possible that 
the aggregate amount of all the deductions made during a year of assessment shall equal the 
income tax chargeable on him in respect of his emoluments for that year.  
 
(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3) of this section, in determining the amount 
of a deduction or deductions to be made in the case of any particular employee, the relevant 
tax authority may take into account an assessable income of that employee for the same year 
arising from any other source chargeable with income tax under this Act.  

 
371 
 
(8) Income tax recovered under the provisions of this section by deduction from the emoluments 
of an employee shall be set-off for the purposes of collection against tax charged on him by 
an assessment, but only to the extent that the deductions have been made on account of or by 
reference to an income charged by the assessment.  
 
(9) The Minister may make regulations generally for the carrying out of the provisions of this 
section.  
 
82. Employer to be answerable for tax deducted  
 
An employer required under a provision of this Act to make deductions from emoluments or 
amounts on account of emoluments paid by him to an employee shall account to the relevant tax 
authority in such manner as the relevant tax authority may prescribe for the deductions so made, 
and in the event of failure by the employer to make the deduction, or properly to account 
therefor, the amount thereof together with a penalty of 10 per cent per annum of the amount plus 
interest at the prevailing commercial rate shall be recoverable as a debt due by the employer to 
the relevant tax authority.  
 
83. Relief in respect of error or mistake  
 
(1) If a taxable person who has paid income tax for a year of assessment alleges that an 
assessment made on him for that year was excessive by reason of some error or mistake in a 
return, statement or an account made by him or on his behalf for the purpose of the 
assessment, he may, at anytime not later than six years after the end of the year of 
assessment within which the assessment was made, make an application in writing to the 
relevant tax authority for relief.  
 
(2) On receiving an application, the relevant tax authority shall enquire into the matter and shall, 
subject to the provisions of this section, give, by way of repayment of tax, relief in respect of 
the error or mistake as appears to be reasonable and just:  
 
Provided that no relief shall be given under this section in respect of an error or a mistake as 
to the basis on which the liability of the applicant ought to have been computed where the 
return, statement or account was in fact made on the basis or in accordance with the practice 
of the relevant tax authority generally prevailing at the time when the return, statement or 
account was made.  
 
(3) In determining an application under this section, the relevant tax authority shall have regard 
to all the relevant circumstances of the case, and in particular, shall consider whether the 
granting of relief would result in the exclusion from charge to tax of any part of the income 
of the applicant, and for that purpose the relevant tax authority may take into consideration 
the liability to tax of the applicant and any assessment made on him for other years.  
 
(4) A determination of the relevant tax authority under the section shall be final and conclusive.  
 
 

 
372 
 
84. Payment of tax  
 
(1) Except as is otherwise provided in this Part of this Act, no claim for repayment of tax shall 
be allowed unless it is made in writing within six years after the end of the year of 
assessment to which it relates.  
 
(2) The relevant tax authority shall give a certificate of the amount of any tax to be repaid under 
any of the provisions of this Part of this Act, or under any order of a court of competent 
jurisdiction, and on the receipt of the certificate the Accountant-General of the relevant 
territory shall cause repayment to be made in conformity therewith.  
 
85. Tax clearance certificate  
 
(1) Whenever the relevant tax authority is of opinion that tax assessed on the income of a person 
for the three years immediately preceding the current year of assessment has been fully paid 
or that no tax is due on the income or that the person is not liable to tax for any of those 
three years, it shall issue a tax clearance certificate to the person within two weeks of 
demand for the certificate by that person or give reasons for the denial, so however, that the 
payment of current year tax shall not be made a condition for the issuance of the certificate 
unless the applicant is leaving the country finally.  
 
(2) A Ministry, Department or an agency of Government or a commercial bank with whom a 
person has any dealing with respect to any of the transactions mentioned in subsection (4) of 
this section, shall demand from the person a tax clearance certificate for the three years 
immediately preceding the current year of assessment and shall verify the genuineness by 
referring same to the issuing tax authority.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(3) A tax clearance certificate shall disclose in respect of the last three years of assessment- 
 
(a) chargeable income;  
 
(b) tax payable;  
 
(c) tax paid; and  
 
(d) tax outstanding or alternatively a statement to the effect that no tax is due.  
 
(e) tax payer identification number (T.I.N)  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(4) The provisions of subsection (2) of this section shall apply in relation to the following, that 
is- 
 
(a) application for Government loan for industry or business;  
 

 
373 
 
(b) registration of motor vehicle;  
 
(c) application for firearms licence;  
 
(d) application for foreign exchange or exchange control permission to remit funds outside 
Nigeria;  
 
(e) application for certificate of occupancy;  
 
(f) application for award of contracts by Government, its agencies and registered companies;  
 
(g) application for approval of building plans;  
 
(h) application for trade licence;  
 
(i) application for transfer of real property;  
 
(j) application for import or export licence;  
 
(k) application for agent licence;  
 
(l) application for pools or gaming licence;  
 
(m) application for registration as a contractor;  
 
(n) application for distributorship;  
 
(o) confirmation of appointment by Government as chairman or member of a public board, 
institution, commission, company or to any other similar position made by the 
Government;  
 
(p) stamping of guarantor‘s form for a Nigerian passport;  
 
(q) application for registration of a limited liability company or of a business name;  
 
(r) application for allocation of market stalls;  
 
(s) appointment or election into public office;  
 
(t) for change of ownership of vehicle by the vendor;  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(u) application for plot of land; 
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(v) any other transaction as may be determined from time to time  

 
374 
 
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(5) An applicant for control permission to remit funds to a non-resident recipient in respect of 
income accruing from rent, dividend, interest, royalty, fees or any other similar income shall 
be required to produce a tax clearance certificate to the effect that tax has been paid on the 
fund in respect of which the application is sought or that no tax is payable, whichever is the 
case.  
 
(6) When a person who has deducted any tax pursuant to the provisions of this Act fails to pay 
the tax so deducted Lo the relevant tax authority, no tax clearance certificate may be issued 
to that person even if he has fully discharged his own tax liability under this Act.  
 
(7) A person who- 
 
(a) for the purpose of obtaining a tax clearance certificate, gives incorrect information in 
relation to any matter or thing affecting his liability to tax; or  
 
(b) obtains a tax clearance certificate through misrepresentation, forgery or falsification, is 
guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of ₦50,000 plus twice the tax 
payable by him or to imprisonment for three years or to both such fine and imprisonment.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(8) Where a person is able to produce evidence that he has suffered tax deduction at source and 
that the year of assessment to which the tax relates falls within the period covered by the tax 
clearance certificate, the person shall not be denied a tax clearance certificate:  
 
Provided that any balance of tax after credit for the tax so deducted has been fully paid.  
 
(9) A person be it a government organization or corporate entity to whom section 85 (2) applies 
who fails to comply with same is guilty of an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of 
₦5,000,000.00 or to imprisonment for 3 years or both fine and imprisonment.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
 
 
PART X 
 
Administrative and transitional provisions 
 
86. Joint Tax Board  
 
(1) There is hereby established a Board which shall be known as the Joint Tax Board (in this 
Act referred to as “the Board”).  
 
(2) The Board shall consist of the following members, that is- 
 

 
375 
 
(a) the chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service, appointed pursuant to section 11 of 
the Federal Inland Revenue Service (Establishment) Act, 2007 who shall be chairman of 
the Service; and  
[2007 No. 13 2007; 2011 No. 20.] 
 
(b) one member from each State, being a person appointed pursuant to section 87 (2) (a) of 
this Act, and a nomination under this paragraph shall be evidenced by notice in writing 
delivered to the Secretary to the Board by the Governor.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(3) The Joint Tax Board shall appoint an officer who is experienced in income tax matters to be 
secretary to the Board, and may, in accordance with existing law, appoint such other staff as 
the Board may deem to be necessary, from time to time, including on secondment or 
transfer, from any public service in Nigeria.  
[2011 No. 20] 
 
(4) The secretary shall not be a member of the Board but shall be responsible for maintaining 
records of the Board’s proceedings and for signifying all decisions of the Board.  
 
(5) The secretary shall summon a meeting of the Board whenever the business requiring its 
attention so warrants, or on the request of a member, and a majority decision of the members 
obtained by him in written correspondence on any matter, shall be treated in all respects as 
though it were a decision of the Board in an actual meeting, unless any member has 
requested the submission of that matter to such meeting.  
(6) At a meeting of the Board, a member may be represented by an official duly authorised by 
the member for such purpose, and seven members or their representatives shall constitute a 
quorum.  
 
(7) The chairman or any person duly authorised to represent him under subsection (6) of this 
section shall preside at all meetings of the Board and every decision of the Board shall, 
when there is no consensus, be by majority of the members present and voting, and the 
chairman shall have a casting vote apart from his deliberative vote when there is an equality 
of votes.  
 
(8) The Legal Adviser, Federal Inland Revenue Service shall be in attendance at meetings of the 
Service and shall serve thereat as adviser to the Service.  
 
(9) The Board shall- 
 
(a) exercise the power or duties conferred on it by express provisions of this Act, and any 
other powers and duties arising under this Act which may be agreed by the Government 
of each territory to be exercised by the Board;  
 
(b) exercise powers and perform duties conferred on it by any enactment of the Federal 
Government imposing tax on the income and profits of companies, or which may be 
agreed by the Minister to be exercised or performed by it under the enactment in place of 

 
376 
 
the Federal Inland Revenue Service;  
 
(c) advise the Federal Government, on request, in respect of double taxation arrangement 
concluded or under consideration with any other country, and in respect of rates of capital 
allowances and other taxation matters having effect throughout Nigeria and in respect of 
any proposed amendment to this Act;  
 
(d) use its best endeavours to promote uniformity both in the application of this Act and in 
the incidence of tax on individuals throughout Nigeria; and  
 
(e) impose its decisions on matters of procedure and interpretation of this Act on any State 
for purposes of conforming with agreed procedure or interpretation.  
 
(10) The Federal Government shall provide an office for the Board of which the recurrent 
expenses incurred by that Government, including the emoluments of the secretary and of any 
other officers or employees of the Board, shall be shared between the Federal and State 
Governments either in proportion to their respective tax revenues or in some other manner as 
those Governments may agree upon from time to time.  
 
87. Establishment and composition of the State Board of Internal Revenue  
 
(1) There is hereby established for each State, a Board to be known as the State Board of 
Internal Revenue (in this Act referred to as “the State Board”) whose operational arm shall 
be known as the State Internal Revenue Service (in this Act referred to as “the State 
Service”).  
[1996 No. 31.] 
 
(2) The State Board shall comprise- 
 
(a) the Chairman of the State Internal Revenue Service as Chairman of the State Board who 
shall be a person experienced in taxation and a member of a relevant recognized 
professional body, appointed by the State Governor, subject to confirmation by the State 
House of Assembly;  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(b) the Directors from within or outside the State Service;  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(c) a Director from the State Ministry of Finance;  
 
(d) the Legal Adviser to the State Service;  
 
(e) three other persons nominated by the State Governor on their personal merit, one each 
representing a Senatorial District in the State; and  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 

 
377 
 
(f) the secretary of the State Service who shall be an ex-officio member.  
 
(3) Any five members of the State Board, of whom one shall be the chairman or a Director, 
shall constitute a quorum.  
 
(4) The secretary of the State Service shall be appointed by the Board from within the State 
Service.  
 
(5) Notwithstanding that the Legal Adviser to the State Service is a member of the State Board, 
he may appear for and represent the State Board or State Service in his professional capacity 
in any proceedings in which the State Board or State Service is a party, and the Legal 
Adviser shall not in such circumstances give evidence on behalf of the State Board or State 
Service.  
 
(6) The secretary shall summon a meeting of the State Board whenever the business requiring 
its attention so warrants, or on the request of a member.  
 
(7) A majority decision of the members on any matter obtained by the secretary in written 
correspondence shall be treated in all respects as though it were a decision of the Board in an 
actual meeting unless any member has requested the submission of the matter to such 
meeting.  
 
88. Functions of the State Board  
 
(1) The State Board shall be responsible for- 
[1996 No. 31.] 
 
(a) ensuring the effectiveness and optimum collection of all taxes and penalties due to the 
Government under the relevant laws;  
 
(b) doing all such things as may be deemed necessary and expedient for the assessment and 
collection of the tax and shall account for all amounts so collected in a manner to be 
prescribed by the Commissioner:  
 
Provided that an amount of not less than 5 percent of revenue collected as may be 
approved by a State House Assembly shall be retained by the State Board of Internal 
Revenue to defray cost of collection and administration.  
[2011 No. 20] 
 
(c) making recommendations, where appropriate, to the Joint Tax Board on tax policy, tax 
reform, tax legislation, tax treaties and exemption as may be required, from time to time;  
 
(d) generally controlling the management of the State Service on matters of policy, subject to 
the provisions of the law setting up the State Service; and  
 
(e) appointing, promoting, transferring and imposing discipline on employees of the State 

 
378 
 
Service.  
 
(2) The State Board shall be autonomous in the day-to-day running of the technical, professional 
and administrative affairs of the State Service.  
 
(3) Subject to subsection (4) of this section, the State Board may, by notice in the Gazette or in 
writing, authorise any person to- 
[1998 No. 18.] 
 
(a) perform or exercise on behalf of the State Board, any function, duty or power conferred 
on the State Board; and  
 
(b) receive any notice or other document to be given or delivered to or in consequence of this 
Act and any subsidiary legislation made under it.  
 
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3) of this section, the State Board shall not 
delegate any power conferred on it under sections 2, 6, 7, 17, 46, 47, 50, 53, 54, 55, 57, 78, 
86, 99, 102, 103 and 104 of this Act to any person.  
 
89. Establishment of Technical Committee of the State Board  
 
(1) There shall be a Technical Committee of the State Board (in this Act referred to as “the 
Technical Committee”) which shall comprise- 
[1996 No. 31.] 
 
(a) the chairman of the State Board as chairman; 
 
(b) the Directors within the State Service;  
 
(c) the Legal Adviser to the State Service;  
 
(d) the secretary of the State Service.  
 
(2) The Technical Committee shall- 
 
(a) have powers to co-opt additional staff from within the State Service in the discharge of 
the duties;  
 
(b) consider all matters that require professional and technical expertise and make 
recommendations to the State Board;  
 
(c) advise the State Board on all its powers and duties specifically mentioned in section 88 of 
this Act;  
 
(d) attend to such other matters as may, from to time, be referred to it by the Board.  
 

 
379 
 
90. Establishment of Local Government Revenue Committee  
 
(1) There shall be established for each local government area of a State a Committee to be 
known as the Local Government Revenue Committee (in this Act referred to as “the 
Revenue Committee”).  
[1996 No.31.] 
 
(2) The Revenue Committee shall comprise- 
 
(a) Supervisor for Finance as chairman;  
 
(b) three local government councillors as members; and  
 
(c) two other persons experienced in revenue matter to be nominated by the chairman of the 
local government on their personal merits.  
 
91. Functions of the Revenue Committee  
 
(1) The Revenue Committee shall be responsible for the assessment and collection of all taxes, 
fines and rates under its jurisdiction and shall account for all amounts so collected in a 
manner to be prescribed by the chairman of the local government.  
[1996 No.31.] 
(2) The revenue committee shall be autonomous of the local government treasury and shall be 
responsible for the day-to-day administration of the Department which forms its operational 
arm.  
 
92. Establishment and composition of Joint State Revenue Committee  
 
(1) There is hereby established for each State of the Federation a Joint State Revenue 
Committee which shall comprise- 
[1998 No. 19.] 
 
(a) the chairman of the State Internal Revenue Service as the chairman;  
 
(b) the chairman of the Local Government Revenue Committee;  
 
(c) a representative of the bureau on local government affairs not below the rank of Director;  
 
(d) a representative of the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission, as an 
observer;  
 
(e) the State Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Commission, as an observer;  
 
(f) the Legal Adviser of the State Internal Revenue Service;  
 
(g) the secretary of the Committee who shall be a staff of the State Internal Revenue Service.  

 
380 
 
93. Functions  
 
(1) The functions of the State Joint Revenue Committee shall be to- 
[1998 No. 19.] 
 
(a) implement decisions of the Joint Tax Board;  
 
(b) advise the Joint Tax Board and the State and local governments on revenue matters;   
 
(c) harmonise tax administration in the State;  
 
(d) enlighten members of the public generally on State and local government revenue 
matters; and  
 
(e) carry out such other functions as may be assigned to it by the Joint Tax Board.  
 
 
 
PART XI 
 
Offences and penalties 
 
94. Offences and penalties  
 
(1) A person guilty of an offence under this Act, or a person who contravenes or fails to comply 
with any of the provisions of this Act or any rule or regulation made thereunder for which no 
other penalty is specifically provided, shall be liable on conviction to a fine of ₦5,000 and 
where the offence is the failure to furnish a return, statement or information or to keep 
records required, a further sum of one hundred naira for every day during which the failure 
continues, and, in default of payment, to imprisonment for six months, and the liability to 
such further sum shall commence from the day following the conviction, or from such other 
day thereafter as the Court may order.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(2) A person who- 
 
(a) fails to comply with the requirements of a notice served on him under this Act; or  
 
(b) without sufficient cause, fails to attend in answer to a notice or summons served on him 
under this Act, or having attended fails to answer any question lawfully put to him,  
 
is guilty of an offence against this Act.  
 
(3) Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act or the Criminal 
Procedure Law or Code of a State, a magistrate may dispense with the personal attendance 
of the defendant if he pleads guilty in writing or so pleads by a legal practitioner.  

 
381 
 
[Cap. C41.] 
 
(4) In the case of failure by a person to comply with the requirements of a notice given by the 
relevant tax authority under the provisions of section 41 of this Act for the purposes of the 
income tax for a year of assessment to be charged on that person, with respect to income 
from any source other than from an employment, the relevant tax authority may, in lieu of 
the institution of proceedings against the person under the provisions of subsection (2) of 
this section, impose a penalty on him of an amount equal to the income tax chargeable on 
him for the preceding year of assessment:  
 
Provided that- 
 
(a) written notice of the penalty shall be served on the person;  
 
(b) any amount of the penalty remaining unpaid thirty days after service of the notice, may 
be sued for and recovered in a court of competent jurisdiction by the relevant tax 
authority in its official name with full costs of action from the person liable thereto as a 
debt to the Federal Government or relevant State;  
(c) a certificate signed by an officer of the relevant tax authority setting out the name and 
address of the person, the date of service of the said notice, and the amount of the penalty 
remaining unpaid, shall be sufficient authority for the court to give judgment for that 
amount; and  
 
(d) the relevant tax authority may remit the whole or any part of the penalty, whether before 
or after judgment, for any reason which appears to it to be adequate.  
 
95. Penalty for making incorrect returns  
 
(1) A person who, without reasonable excuse- 
 
(a) makes an incorrect return by omitting or understating any income liable to tax under this 
Act; or  
 
(b) gives an incorrect information in relation to a matter or thing affecting the liability to tax 
of any taxable person,  
 
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of ₦20,000 and double the amount of 
tax which has been undercharged in consequence of the incorrect return or information, or 
would have been so undercharged if the return or information had been accepted as correct.  
[1996 No. 30; 2011 No. 20.] 
 
(2) No person shall be liable to a penalty under this section unless the complaint concerning the 
offence was made in the year of assessment in respect of or during which the offence was 
committed or within six years after the expiration thereof.  
 
(3) The relevant tax authority may compound any offence under this section and may before 

 
382 
 
judgment stay or compound any proceeding thereunder.  
 
96. False statements and returns  
 
(1) A person who- 
 
(a) for the purpose of obtaining a deduction, set-off, relief or an overpayment in respect of 
tax for himself or any other person, or who in a return, account or particulars made or 
furnished with reference to tax, knowingly makes a false statement or false 
representation; or  
 
(b) aids, abets, assists, counsels, incites or induces any other person- 
 
(i) to make or deliver a false return or statement under this Act; or  
 
(ii) to keep or prepare false accounts or particulars concerning any income on which tax 
is payable under this Act; or  
 
(iii) unlawfully refuses or neglects to pay tax,  
 
guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of ₦50,000 for individuals and 
₦500,000 for corporate bodies or to imprisonment for not more than six months:  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
Provided that where an offence under this section is committed by a person in relation to tax 
payable by, or repayable to him for a year of assessment, there shall be substituted for the 
amount of the fine as aforesaid, the amount of ₦l0,000 or treble the tax chargeable on the 
person for that year, whichever is the greater.  
[2011 No. 20] 
 
(2) The Board may compound an offence under this section and with the leave of the court may 
before judgment stay or compound any proceeding thereunder.  
 
97. Penalty for offences by authorised and unauthorised persons  
 
A person who- 
 
(a) being a person appointed for the due administration of this Act or employed in 
connection with the assessment or collection of the tax- 
 
(i) demands from a person an amount in excess of the authorised assessment of the tax; 
or  
 
(ii) withholds for his own use or otherwise, a portion of the amount of tax collected; or  
 
(iii) renders a false return, whether orally or in writing, of the amount of tax collected or 

 
383 
 
received by him; or  
 
(iv) defrauds a person, embezzles any money, or otherwise uses his position to deal 
wrongly with the relevant tax authority; or  
 
(b) not being authorised under this Act to do so, collects or attempts to collect the tax under 
this Act,  
 
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of ₦100,000 or to imprisonment for 
three years or both such fine and imprisonment.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
98. Tax to be payable notwithstanding proceedings  
 
The institution of proceedings for the imposition of a penalty, fine or term of imprisonment 
under this Act shall not relieve a person from liability to payment of any tax for which he is or 
may become liable.  
 
99. Prosecution to be with sanction of Board  
 
No prosecution in respect of an offence under this Part of this Act may be commenced except at 
the instance of the relevant tax authority.  
 
100. Saving for criminal proceedings 
 
The provisions of this Part of this Act shall not affect any criminal proceeding under any other 
enactment.  
 
101. Place of an offence 
 
An offence under this Act shall be deemed to occur in the State or at such place as the relevant 
tax authority may decide.  
 
 
 
PART XII 
 
Powers of tax collectors 
 
102. Definition of tax collector 
 
(1) For the purpose of this Part of this Act, a tax collector means a duly authorised official of the 
State Service or the Federal Inland Revenue Service.  
 
(2) The production by a tax collector of a certificate or warrant- 
 

 
384 
 
(a) issued by, and having printed thereon the official name of the relevant tax authority;  
 
(b) setting out his full name or names; and  
 
(c) stating that he is, or is authorised to exercise the functions of a tax collector,  
 
shall be sufficient evidence that the tax collector is duly authorised for the purposes of this 
Act.  
 
103. Power to enter and require information 
 
Whenever it is necessary for the purpose of obtaining information in relation to a person who is 
or may be liable to the tax imposed by this Act, or the income, occupation or domestic 
circumstances of that person, or for the purpose of collecting the tax, a tax collector may, during 
daylight hours, enter into and upon any house or premises, provided he does so without damage 
to the house or premises, and require a person found therein to give all the information orally to 
him.  
 
104. Power to distrain 
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(1) Without   prejudice   to   any   other   power   conferred   on   the   relevant tax  authority  for  
the  enforcement  of  payment  of  tax  due  from  a  taxable person that has been properly 
served with an assessment which has become final and conclusive and a demand notice has 
been served upon the person in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Act, or has 
been served upon the person, then, if payment of tax is not made within the time specified 
by  the  demand  notice,  the  relevant  tax  authority  may,  in  the  prescribed form, for the 
purpose of enforcing payment of tax due- 
 
(a) distrain the taxpayer by his goods, other chattels, bond or other securities; or  
 
(b) distrain upon any land, premises or places in respect of which the taxpayer is the owner 
and, subject to the provisions of this section, recover the amount of tax due by sale of 
anything so distrained.  
 
(2) The authority to distrain under this section shall be in the form prescribed by the relevant tax 
authority.  
 
(3) For the purpose of levying any distress under this section, an officer duly authorized by the 
relevant tax authority shall apply to a Judge of a High Court sitting in Chambers, under oath 
for the issue of a warrant under this section.  
 
(4) The Judge may, on application made ex-parte, authorize such officer, referred to in sub-
section (3) of this section, in writing to execute any warrant of distress and, if necessary, 
break open any building or place in the daytime for the purpose of levying such distress and 
he may call to his assistance any  police officer and  it  shall  be  the duty  of  any  police 

 
385 
 
officer  when  so required to aid and assist in the execution of any warrant of distress and in 
levying the distress.  
 
(5) The distress taken pursuant to this section may, at the cost of the owner, be kept for 14 days, 
at the end of which time, if the, amount due in respect of tax and the cost and charges 
incidental to the distress are not paid, the same way be sold.  
 
(6) There shall be paid out of the proceeds of sale, in the first instance, the cost or charges 
incidental to the sale and keeping of the distress and the residue, if any, after the recovery of 
the tax liability, shall be payable to the owner of the things distrained or to the appropriate 
court where the owner cannot be traced, within 30 days of such sale.  
 
(7) In exercise of the powers of distress conferred by this section, the person to whom the 
authority is granted under sub-section (3) of this section may distrain upon all goods, 
chattels and effects belonging to the debtor wherever the same may be found in Nigeria.  
 
(8) Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing the sale of any immoveable 
property without an order of a court of competent jurisdiction.  
 
105. Obstruction to be an offence 
 
Any person who- 
 
(a) having been required to give information under the provisions of the preceding section 
wilfully obstructs a tax collector in the performance of his duties by neglecting or 
refusing to give such information; or  
 
(b) otherwise obstructs or wilfully misleads or attempts to mislead a tax collector in the 
performance of his duties under this Part of this Act,  
 
is guilty of an offence under this Act.  
 
106. Immunity from action, etc. 
 
A tax collector shall not be liable in any action or proceeding, whether civil or criminal, for 
anything done or said by him in the lawful exercise of the powers conferred upon him by section 
102 of this Act.  
 
106A. Power to make regulations  
 
(1) The Minister may, on the recommendation of the Joint Tax Board, make regulations 
generally for giving full effect to the provisions of this Act.  
 
(2) The National Assembly may, upon a proposal by the President, impose, increase, reduce, 
withdraw or cancel any rate of tax, duty or fee chargeable as specified in section 40 and 
Second Schedule of this Act and in accordance with section 59 (2) of the 1999 Constitution.  
[2011 No. 20.] 

 
386 
 
PART XIII 
 
Miscellaneous 
 
107.  Repeal of Cap. 173, Cap. 43 and Cap. 174 L.F.N. 1990 
 
Subject to section 6 of the Interpretation Act, the Income Tax Management Act, the Capital 
Transfer Tax Act and the Income Tax (Armed Forces and Other Persons) (Special Provisions) 
Act are hereby repealed.   
[1996 No. 32. Cap. 123.] 
 
 
108.  Interpretation 
 
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires- 
 
“assessable income” means assessable income determined under the provisions of Part III of 
this Act;  
 
“Board” means the Joint Tax Board established under section 86 of this Act; 
[2020 No. 1, s. 31] 
 
“company” means a company or corporation (other than a corporation sole) established by or 
under a law in force in Nigeria or elsewhere;  
 
“employment” includes any appointment or office, whether public or otherwise, for which 
remuneration is payable, and “employee” and “employer” shall be construed accordingly;  
 
“executor” includes any person administering the estate of a deceased person;  
 
“individual” includes a corporation sole and a body of individuals but does not include a 
company, partnership, community, family, trustee or executor, or any body of trustees or 
executors;  
 
“itinerant worker” includes an individual irrespective of his status who works at any time in 
any State during a year of assessment (other than as a member of the armed forces) for wages, 
salaries or livelihood by working more than one State and work for a minimum of twenty (20) 
days in at least three (3) months of every assessment year;  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
“Minister” means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to taxation;  
 
“National Minimum Wage” means the extant National Minimum Wage pursuant to the 
National Minimum Wage Act; 
[2020 No. 1, s. 31] 
 

 
387 
 
“Nigerian company” means any company incorporated under the Companies and Allied 
Matters Act or any enactment replaced by that Act;  
[Cap. C20.] 
 
“person” includes an executor, trustee, company, partnership, community, family and 
individual;  
 
“relevant tax authority” means, in relation to- 
 
(a) an individual for a year of assessment, the tax authority of the territory in which the 
individual is deemed to be resident in that year;  
 
(b) an executor, the tax authority of the territory in which the deceased individual was last 
deemed to be resident or would have been deemed to be resident if the provisions of this 
Act had been in force prior to the date of his death;  
 
(c) a trustee of a trust or settlement- 
 
(i) where all the income of the settlement or trust for a year of assessment arises in one 
territory, the tax authority of that territory; or  
 
(ii) where the income of the settlement or trust for a year of assessment arises in more 
than one territory, or in any other case (where the relevant tax authority cannot be 
determined under any of the foregoing provisions), the Federal Inland Revenue 
Service;  
 
(d) a partnership for a year of assessment, the tax authority of the territory in which the 
principal office, or place of business of the partnership in Nigeria is situated on the first 
day of that year, or is first established during that year;  
 
(e) a village or other indigenous community, the tax authority of the territory in which that 
community is to be found;  
 
(f) a person to whom section 2 (1) (b) of this Act applies, the Federal Inland Revenue 
Service;  
 
“Service” means the Federal Inland Revenue Service as defined in the Federal Inland Revenue 
Service (Establishment) Act, 2007;  
[2019 No. 1, s. 32] 
 
“State Relevant tax authority” means the State Relevant tax authority established under section 
87 of this Act;  
[1996 No. 31.] 
“tax” means any income tax imposed in conformity with the provisions of this Act;  
 
“Tax Authority” means the Federal Inland Revenue Service, the State Board or the Local 

 
388 
 
Government Revenue Committee;  
[1998 No. 18.] 
 
“taxable person” means any individual or body of individuals (including a family, any 
corporation sole, trustee or executor) having any income which is chargeable with tax under the 
provisions of this Act;  
 
“territory” means a State of the Federation and includes the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja;  
 
“total income” means, in relation to an individual for a year of assessment his aggregate 
assessable income for that year after the additions and deductions specified in Part IV of this Act 
have been made;  
 
“year of assessment” means the period of twelve months commencing on the first day of 
January.  
 
109.  Short title and application 
 
This Act may be cited as the Personal Income Tax Act and shall apply throughout the Federation 
except as herein provided.  
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES 
 
FIRST SCHEDULE 
 
[Sections 8 (7), 15 and 27.] 
 
Determination of residence 
 
1.  Interpretation 
 
In this Schedule, unless where the context otherwise requires- 
 
“earned income” in relation to an individual, means income derived by him from a trade, 
business, profession, vocation or employment carried on or exercised by him and a pension 
derived by him in respect of a previous employment;  
 
“foreign employment” means an employment, the duties of which are wholly performed 
outside Nigeria save during any temporary visit of the employee to Nigeria;  
 
“Nigerian employment” means any employment, not being a foreign employment, the duties of 
which are wholly or partly performed in Nigeria;  
 

 
389 
 
“Nigerian pension” means a pension in respect of past service under, and payable by, a 
government or governments in Nigeria;  
 
“place of residence” in relation to an individual, means a place available for his domestic use in 
Nigeria on a relevant day, and does not include any hotel, rest-house or other place at which he is 
temporarily lodging unless no permanent place is available for his use on that day;  
 
“principal place of residence” in relation to an individual with two or more places of residence 
on a relevant day, not being both within anyone territory means- 
 
(a) in the case of an individual with no source of income other than a pension in Nigeria, that 
place of those places in which he usually resides;  
 
(b) in the case of an individual who has a source of earned income other than a pension in 
Nigeria, that place of those places which on a relevant day is nearest to his usual place of 
work;  
 
(c) in the case of an individual who has a source or sources of unearned income in Nigeria, 
that place of those places in which he usually resides.  
 
(d) in the case of an individual who works in the branch office or operational site of a 
company or other body corporate, the place at which the branch office or operational site 
is situate:  
 
Provided that operational site shall include Oil terminals, Oil Platforms, Flow Stations, 
Factories, Quarries, Construction site with a minimum of 50 workers, etc.  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
2. Foreign employments  
 
An individual not being a person to whom subsection (1) (b) of section 2 of this Act applies, who 
holds a foreign employment on the 1st day of January in a year of assessment, or who first 
becomes liable to income tax in Nigeria for that year by reason of his entering that employment 
during that year, shall be deemed to be resident for that year in the territory in which the 
principal office of his employer is situated on that day or on the day his foreign employment 
commences, as the case may be.  
 
3. Nigerian employment  
 
An individual who holds a Nigerian employment on the 1st day of January in a year of 
assessment, or who first becomes liable to income tax in Nigeria for that year by reason of his 
entering that employment during that year, shall be deemed to be resident for that year in the 
territory in which he has a place or principal place of residence on that day or, as the case may 
be, on the day on which he enters upon the full duties of that employment in Nigeria:  
 
Provided that if the individual is on leave from a Nigerian employment on the 1st day of January 

 
390 
 
in a year of assessment he shall be deemed to be resident for that year by reference to his place or 
principal place of residence immediately before his leave began.  
 
4.  Other employments  
 
An employee whose remuneration is subject to income tax in Nigeria for a year of assessment, 
but who is not deemed to be resident in a territory for that year under the provisions of paragraph 
3  of this  Schedule,  shall  be deemed to  hold  a foreign employment, and if he has no territory 
of residence for that year under the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, he shall be 
deemed to be a person to whom subsection (1) (b) of section 2 of this Act applies.  
 
5.  Pensions  
 
(1) An individual whose only source of earned income arising in Nigeria on the 1st day of 
January in a year of assessment was a pension, and who had a place or principal place of 
residence on that day shall be deemed to be resident for that year in the territory in which 
that place or principal place of residence was situated on that day.  
 
(2) An individual whose only source of earned income arising in Nigeria on the 1st day of 
January in a year of assessment was a pension, and who had no place of residence on that 
day, shall be deemed to be resident for that year- 
 
(a) if the pension is a Nigerian pension wholly payable by the Government of one territory, 
not being a Nigerian pension in respect of which the subsection (1) (b) of section 2 of this 
Act applies, in that territory;  
 
(b) if the pension is not a Nigerian pension, in the territory in which the principal office in 
Nigeria of the pension fund or other person authorising payment of the pension is 
situated.  
 
(3) An individual whose only source of earned income arising in Nigeria on the 1st day of 
January in a year of assessment was a Nigerian pension, and who had no place of residence 
on that day shall, if the pension is payable by more than one government or if there are two 
or more pensions arising in different territories to the individual on that day, be subject to 
subsection (1) (b) of section 2 of this Act.  
 
6.  Other earned income  
 
An individual (other than a corporation sole or body of individuals) who has a source of earned 
income in Nigeria for a year of assessment, other than an employment or a pension, shall be 
deemed to be resident for that year in the territory in which he had a place or principal place of 
residence on the 1st day of January in that year:  
 
Provided that- 
 
(a) if the source of the income is first acquired by the individual during the year of 

 
391 
 
assessment, and he had no place of residence on the first day of that year, he shall be 
deemed to be resident for that year in the territory where he first establishes a place of 
residence during that year; and  
 
(b) in any other case, the individual shall be deemed to be resident for that year in any 
territory from which any part or the whole of his earned income arising in Nigeria is 
derived, if the income is derived from more than one territory.  
 
7. Unearned income  
 
An individual (other than a corporation sole or body of individuals) who has no source of earned 
income in Nigeria for a year of assessment but who has one or more source of unearned income 
in Nigeria for that year shall be deemed to be resident for that year in the territory in which he 
has a place or principal place of residence on the 1st day of January of that year:  
 
Provided that- 
 
(a) if all the unearned income of the individual for that year arises in one territory, and he has 
no place of residence on that day, he shall be deemed to be resident for that year in that 
territory;  
 
(b) if the unearned income of the individual arises for that year in more than one territory, 
and he has no place of residence on that day, he shall be deemed to be resident. for that 
year in the territory from which any part of the unearned income arises.  
 
8.Application 
 
(1) Where the territory of residence of an individual for a year of assessment may be determined 
under more than one of the preceding paragraphs of this Schedule, it shall be determined by 
the first-numbered paragraph which is applicable to his circumstances.  
 
(2) If, by reason of sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph, or otherwise, a determination of 
residence of an individual for a year of assessment falls to be revised by a tax authority, 
other than that of the territory in which the individual is finally determined to be resident for 
that year, it shall discharge any assessment made by it on the income of the individual for 
that year.  
 
9.  Corporation sole or body of individuals  
 
(1) A corporation sole or body of individuals other than a family or community shall be deemed 
to be resident for a year of assessment in the territory in which its principal office in Nigeria 
is situated on the first day of January in that year or, if it has no office in Nigeria on that day, 
in a territory in which any part or the whole of its income liable to tax in Nigeria arises for 
that year.  
 
 

 
392 
 
10. Objections, disputes and appeals  
 
(1) In an objection to an assessment which is or includes, an objection to the determination of an 
individual’s territory of residence by any tax authority, the individual shall set out all the 
grounds on which he relies to refute that determination, and those grounds together with the 
observations thereon by that tax authority shall be referred by it to the Board.  
 
(2) Where a dispute arises as to the territory of residence of an individual for a year of 
assessment, either between two or more tax authorities or between a tax authority and an 
individual before he has been assessed to tax by that authority for that year, the facts may be 
referred to the Board by any tax authority which is a party to the dispute.  
 
(3) Where a dispute arises between two or more tax authorities with respect to the territory of 
residence of an individual for a year of assessment and that individual has already been 
assessed to tax in Nigeria for that year, the facts of that dispute may be referred to the Board 
by any tax authority.  
 
(4) The secretary to the Board shall give notice of any grounds, observations or facts referred to 
the Board under the provisions of sub-paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) of this paragraph to those 
parties, including the individuals who are affected or likely in his opinion to be affected by a 
determination of residence by the Board, and shall afford the parties a period being not less 
than thirty days from the issue of the notice in which to reply thereto.  
 
(5) The secretary to the Board may call for further information to be given by any party, 
including an individual, to an objection or dispute within such time as may appear to him to 
be reasonable, and after the expiry of that period or to the period mentioned in subparagraph 
(4) of this paragraph, whichever is the later, the Board shall proceed to determine the 
territory of residence of the individual for the relevant year of assessment.  
 
(6) Written notice of a determination by the Board shall be given by its secretary to the 
individual and to each tax authority affected thereby, and an assessment which has been 
made on that individual otherwise than in accordance with the determination of the Board 
shall be discharged.  
 
(7) Pending a determination by the Board, the tax authority which has referred an objection to 
the Board under the provisions of this paragraph shall not determine that objection unless 
that objection, insofar as it concerns the territory of residence of the individual, is previously 
withdrawn by him in writing.  
 
(8) A determination by the Board under this paragraph shall be binding on all tax authorities and 
on an appeal tribunal or other body established under a law of a territory for the purposes of 
income tax within that territory, but may be questioned by the individual in the High Court 
of the territory of the tax authority which has made the relevant assessment.  
 
(9) It shall not be competent for an appellant in an appeal against an assessment to enter a 
ground of appeal concerning his territory of residence which he has not disclosed on a valid 

 
393 
 
objection to the relevant assessment.  
 
(10) An appeal from a decision of a High Court in respect of the territory of residence of an 
individual shall lie to the Court of Appeal. 
 
 
(11) Where a tax authority discovers that an individual who has been assessed by it to tax for a 
year of assessment, is deemed to be resident for that year in the territory of some other tax 
authority, the assessment shall be discharged and any tax already paid by the individual in 
respect of that assessment shall be- 
(a) set-off against tax owing for any other year by that individual to the first mentioned 
authority; or  
 
(b) paid to the Government of that other authority; or  
 
(c) repaid to the individual,  
 
in such proportions as the first mentioned authority may decide.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECOND SCHEDULE 
 
[Sections 16 and 27.] 
 
PART I 
 
Income from settlements, trusts and estates 
 
1. Subject to Part II of this Schedule and notwithstanding Part III of this Schedule, the income of 
a settlement or trust shall for all the purposes of this Act be deemed to be the income of the 
settlor or person creating the trust, as the case may be, if- 
 
(a) that settlor or person retains or acquires an immediately exercisable general power of 
appointment over the capital assets of the settlement or trust or over the income derived 
therefrom; or  
 
(b) that settlor or person makes use, directly or indirectly, by borrowing or otherwise, of any 
part of the income arising under the settlement or trust; or  
 
(c) the settlement or trust is revocable in circumstances whereby that settlor or person, or the 
spouse thereof, resumes control over any part of the income or assets comprised therein:  
 
Provided that a settlement or trust shall not be regarded as revocable solely by reason of the 

 
394 
 
fact that an income or asset comprised therein may revert to that settlor or person, or the 
spouse thereof, in the event of a beneficiary predeceasing that settlor or person, or of the 
happening of an uncertain event upon which the settlement or trust is limited.  
 
2.  
 
(1) For the purposes of this Part and Part III of this Schedule, the income of a settlement or trust, 
other than a settlement or trust to which the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
apply, or of the estate of a deceased individual shall be so much of that income as is derived 
from a source in Nigeria and any of the income brought into or received in Nigeria.  
 
(2) The amount of the income (in this Schedule referred to as the “computed income”) of each 
period of twelve months ending on the thirty first day of December in each year shall be 
ascertained as though the provisions of Parts I and II of this Act applied thereto and- 
 
(a) there shall be deducted- 
 
(i) any expenses of the trustee or executor relative to the settlement, trust or estate 
which is authorised by the terms of the deed of settlement or trust or of the will, as 
the case may be;  
 
(ii) any annuity of fixed annual amount paid out of the income of the settlement, trust 
or estate in accordance with the provisions of the deed or will; and  
 
(b) if the income includes any gain or profit from a trade, business, profession or vocation, or 
a rent or premium, there shall be added or deducted, as the case may require, any sum 
which would have been added or deducted for the next following year of assessment 
under the provisions of Part IV of this Act if the income from those sources had been the 
assessable income of an individual for that year ascertained under the provisions of 
section 36 of this Act.  
 
3. The computed income of a year of a settlement, trust or estate shall be apportioned for the 
assessment in the following manner- 
 
 
(a) where- 
 
(i) the terms of the deed of settlement or trust or of a will provide that the whole 
income of the settlement, trust or estate after deduction of any authorised expense 
or annuity of fixed amount is to be divided in specific proportions among the 
beneficiaries entitled thereto, from time to time; or  
 
(ii) by operation of law, on an intestacy, the income of an estate is to be divided in the 
manner referred to in sub-paragraph (a) (i) of this paragraph,  
 
the income of each beneficiary of any year from the settlement, trust or estate shall be his 
similarly apportioned share of the computed income;  

 
395 
 
(b) where a trustee or executor has discretion to make any payment (other than a payment on 
account) to a beneficiary out of the income of a settlement, trust or estate in such amount 
as he sees fit, from time to time; then- 
 
(i) the amount of the payment to a beneficiary made in the course of a year shall be 
treated as income of that year which is assessable to tax in the hands of that 
beneficiary; and  
 
(ii) out of the remainder of the computed income after deducting the aggregate amount 
of all the payments during any year, there shall be apportioned to each beneficiary 
who has any specified proportional interest in the income of the settlement, trust or 
estate, so much thereof as is obtained by applying the proportion to that remainder:  
 
Provided that if the aggregate amount exceeds the computed income, the amount of each 
payment to be treated as income in the hands of a beneficiary under this subparagraph 
shall be reduced proportionally so that the aggregate of the amount as so reduced does 
not exceed the computed income;  
 
(c) any remainder of the computed income of a settlement, trust or estate of any year after 
deducting all amounts apportioned to beneficiaries, or treated as income in the hands of 
beneficiaries under the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph shall be 
apportioned to the trustee or executor for assessment in his name as trustee of the 
settlement or trust or as executor of the estate.  
 
PART II 
 
Special provisions as to settlement on unmarried children 
 
4.  
 
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act where, by virtue or in consequence of a 
settlement and during the life of the settler an income is paid to or for the benefit of a child 
of the settlor in a year of assessment, the income shall, if at the time of payment the child 
was an infant and unmarried, be treated for the purposes of this Act as the income of the 
settlor for that year and not as the income of any other person.  
 
(2) Income paid to or for the benefit of a child of a settlor shall not be treated as provided in 
sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph for any year of assessment in which the aggregate 
amount of the income paid to or for the benefit of that child, which but for this 
subparagraph, would be so treated by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph, does not 
exceed ₦500.  
 
(3) This paragraph shall not apply in relation to an income arising under a settlement in a year 
preceding a year of assessment if the settlor is not in Nigeria at any time during that year of 
assessment, or is not in Nigeria for a period or periods amounting to 183 days or more in any 
twelve-month period commencing in the calendar year and ending either in the same year or 

 
396 
 
the following year.  
 
5. For the purposes of paragraph 4 of this Schedule- 
 
(a) income which, by virtue or in consequence of a settlement, may become payable or 
applicable to or for the benefit of a child of the settlor in the future (whether on the 
fulfillment of a condition or on the happening of a contingency, or as the result of the 
exercise of a power or discretion conferred on any person, or otherwise) shall be deemed 
to be paid to or for the benefit of that child; and  
 
(b) an income dealt with as aforesaid which is not required by the settlement to be allocated, 
at the time when it is so dealt with, to any particular child or children of the settlor shall 
be deemed to be paid in equal shares to or for the benefit of each of the children to or for 
the benefit of whom or any of whom the income or assets representing the income will or 
may become payable or applicable.  
 
6.  
 
(1) Where, by virtue of paragraph 4 of this Schedule, any income tax becomes chargeable on 
and is paid by the settler, he shall be entitled- 
 
(a) to recover from any trustee or other person to whom the income is payable by virtue or in 
consequence of the settlement the amount of the tax so paid; and  
 
(b) for that purpose to require the relevant tax authority to furnish to the settlor a certificate 
specifying the amount of income in respect of which he has so paid tax and the amount of 
the tax so paid, and any certificate so furnished shall be conclusive evidence of the facts 
appearing therein.  
 
(2) Where the settlor obtains from a trustee or any other person a payment in excess of the 
amount he is entitled to recover by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph, then an 
amount equal to the excess shall be paid by him to the trustee or other person to whom the 
income is payable by virtue or in consequence of the settlement, or, where there are two or 
more such persons, the amount shall be apportioned among those persons as the case may 
require.  
 
(3) If a question arises as to the amount of any payment or as to any apportionment to be made 
under sub-paragraph (2) of this paragraph, that question shall be decided by the relevant tax 
authority and its decision thereon shall be final and not subject to an appeal or any review 
whatsoever by any court of law.  
 
7.  
 
(1) In the case of any settlement where there are more than one settlor, paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule shall, subject to the provisions of this paragraph, have effect in relation to each 
settlor as if he were the only settlor.  

 
397 
 
 
(2) In the case of a settlement as aforesaid, income originating from that settlor or person may, 
for the purposes of paragraph 4 of this Schedule, be taken into account, in relation to any 
settlor, as income paid by virtue or in consequence of the settlement to or for the benefit of a 
child of the settlor.  
 
(3) References in this paragraph to income originating from a settlor shall include references to 
the following, that is- 
 
(a) income from property which that settlor has provided directly or indirectly for the 
purposes of the settlement;  
 
(b) income from property representing that property, including accumulated income from 
that property; and  
 
(c) income from so much of any property which represents both property provided as 
aforesaid and other property as, on a just apportionment, represents the property so 
provided.  
 
8. In this Part of this Schedule- 
 
“child” includes a stepchild, an adopted child and an illegitimate child;  
 
“settlement” includes any disposition, trust, covenant, agreement, arrangement or transfer of 
assets;  
 
“settlor” in relation to a settlement, includes a person by whom the settlement was made or 
entered into directly or indirectly, and in particular (but without prejudice to the generality of the 
foregoing) includes a person who has provided or undertaken to provide funds directly or 
indirectly for the purpose of the settlement, or has made with any other person a reciprocal 
arrangement for that other person to make or enter into the settlement.  
 
PART III 
 
Supplementary provisions 
 
9. For the purposes of this Act, where an asset of a trade or business, profession or vocation 
forms part of the estate of a deceased individual, being an asset in respect of which an annual 
allowance may be claimed in arriving at the total income of that individual for the year of 
assessment in which he died, the provisions of the Fifth Schedule to this Act shall apply in the 
following manner- 
 
(a) notwithstanding any provision of that Schedule, no balancing allowance or charge shall 
be given or made to that individual in respect of the asset for that year; and  
 
(b) the estate shall be deemed to have incurred qualifying expenditure on the acquisition of 

 
398 
 
the asset equal in amount to the residue of the expenditure on the day following the death 
of the individual; and  
 
(c) in the event of the disposal of the asset on or after that day, an addition to be made by 
way of a balancing charge in computing the income of the estate shall be made by 
reference to the sum of all allowances or deductions made in respect of the asset to the 
individual and to the estate.  
 
10. An individual in receipt of an annuity of fixed annual amount paid out of the income of a 
settlement, trust or an estate shall be assessable to tax on the full amount of the annuity.  
 
11. The income arising from a settlement, trust or an estate assessable to tax under a provision 
of this Schedule in the hands of any trustee, executor, beneficiary or annuitant for a year of 
assessment shall be the amount of the income ascertained under the foregoing provisions of 
this Schedule of the year preceding that year.  
 
12. 
 
 
(1) Where the income of a settlement, trust or estate of a year includes an income which has 
borne tax in Nigeria or elsewhere, whether by deduction or otherwise, the provisions of Part 
V of this Act with respect to any relief to be given or repayment to be made shall apply as 
though the whole of the taxed income were receivable by the persons to whom the computed 
income of that year is apportioned under the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule- 
 
(a) in due proportion to their respective shares therein; or  
 
(b) where sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 3 of this Schedule applies in proportion to their 
shares in the remainder of the computed income as therein specified, and where there is 
no computed income, the relief or repayment shall be given or made to the trustee or 
executor for the account of the settlement, trust or estate.  
 
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, references to an individual in Part V of this Act shall be 
deemed to include references to a trustee or executor.  
 
13. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Schedule- 
 
(a) a trustee of a settlement or trust, and every executor, shall be answerable for all things to 
be done in connection with the tax to; and  
 
(b) an income apportioned to a trustee or executor shall be assessable by the relevant tax 
authority in relation to that settlement, trust or estate.  
 
14. A trustee of a settlement or trust in Nigeria, and the executor of an estate in Nigeria, shall 
prepare accounts of the income from all sources of the settlement, trust or estate for 
successive periods to the thirty-first day of December in each year, and to the date on which 
the assets of the settlement, trust or estate are finally distributed.  

 
399 
 
 
15. An appeal against the inclusion of an income of a settlement, trust or estate in an assessment 
to tax, by whatever tax authority it may have been made, shall lie only in accordance with 
the appeal provisions of the income tax law of the territory to the tax authority of which the 
trustee or executor is answerable for the relevant year of assessment under the provisions of 
paragraph 13 of this Schedule.  
 
 
 
 
 
THIRD SCHEDULE 
 
[Sections 19 (1),75.] 
 
Income exempted 
 
1. The incomes set out in this Schedule are exempted from taxation.  
 
[Paragraphs 2 and 3 deleted by 2011 No. 20] 
 
4. The emoluments payable from United Kingdom funds to members of visiting or other forces 
and to persons in the permanent service of the United Kingdom Government in Nigeria in 
respect of their offices under the United Kingdom Government and the emoluments payable 
to members of any civilian component, and the income of any authorised service 
organisations, accompanying the visiting forces:  
 
Provided that this exemption shall not apply to any individual who is a citizen of Nigeria or 
who ordinarily resides in Nigeria.  
 
5. All consular fees received on behalf of a foreign State, or by a consular officer or employee 
of the State of his own account, and all income of such officer or employee, other than 
income in respect of any trade, business, profession or vocation carried on by an officer or 
employee or in respect of any other employment exercised by him with Nigeria:  
 
Provided that this exemption shall not apply where the employee is engaged on domestic 
duties or where the officer or employee ordinarily resides in Nigeria and is not also a 
national of the foreign State.  
 
6.  
 
(1) Interest accruing to a person who is not resident in Nigeria as specified in the following sub-
paragraphs- 
 
(a) the interest on a loan charged on the public revenue of the Federation and raised in the 
United Kingdom;  

 
400 
 
 
(b) the interest on a bond issued by the Government of the Federation to secure repayment of 
a loan raised from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development;  
[2019 No. 1, s. 31] 
 
(c) the interest on any money borrowed by the Government of the Federation or of a State on 
terms which include the exemption of interest from tax in the hands of a non-resident 
person;  
 
(d) where the Minister of Finance so consents, the interest on any moneys borrowed outside 
Nigeria by a corporation established by a law in Nigeria upon terms which include the 
exemption of such interest from tax in the hands of any non-resident person;  
 
(e) the interest on deposit accounts, provided the deposits into the account are transfers 
wholly made up of foreign currencies (funds) to Nigeria on or after 1 January 1990 
through Government-approved channels and the depositor does not become non-resident 
after making the transfer while in Nigeria.  
 
(2) For the purpose of the exemption referred to in sub-paragraph (l) of this paragraph, a person 
shall only be deemed to be resident in Nigeria for a year of assessment if he is in Nigeria for 
a period or periods amounting to 183 days or more in any twelve-month period commencing 
in the calendar year and ending either in the same year or the following year.  
 
7. Interest on any loan granted by a bank to a person engaged in- 
[2019 No. 1, s. 31] 
 
(a) Agricultural trade or business; and  
 
(b) the fabrication of any local plant and machinery;  
 
8. The income of a national of the United States of America from employment by the 
International Cooperation Administration, being an administration or agency formed and 
directed by the Government of that country.  
 
9. The income of a national of the United States of America from employment by the 
International Development Services as agents or the International Cooperation 
Administration.  
 
10. [Deleted by 2019 No. 1, s. 31]  
 
11. An income in respect of which tax is remitted or exempted under the provisions of the 
Diplomatic Immunities and Privileges Act or of any enactment, order or notice continued in 
force or effected by that Act.  
[Cap. D9] 
 
12. The income of a local government or government institution.  

 
401 
 
 
13. The income of any ecclesiastical, charitable or educational institution of a public character in 
so far as such income is not derived from a trade or business carried on by such institution.  
 
14.  
 
(1) Pension granted to any person pursuant to any enactment or law for the time being in force.  
 
(2) Wound and disability pensions granted to members of the armed forces or of any recognised 
national defence organisation or to a person injured as a result of enemy action.  
[2011 No. 20] 
 
15. [Deleted by 2019 No. 1, s. 31]   
 
16. The income of a trade union registered under the Trade Unions Act, in so far as the income 
is not derived from a trade or business carried on by that trade union.  
[Cap. T14.] 
 
17. Gratuities payable to a public officer by the Government of the Federation or of a State in 
respect of services rendered by him under a contract of service with that Government and 
described as gratuities either in the contract or some other document issued by or on behalf 
of Government in connection with such contract.  
 
18. Gratuities payable to an employee in the private sector in respect of services rendered by 
him under a contract of service with his employer and described as gratuities either in the 
contract or some other document issued by or on behalf of the employer in connection with 
such contractor.  
[2019 No. 1, s. 31] 
 
19. [Deleted by 2019 No. 1, s. 31] 
 
20. [Deleted by 2019 No. 1, s. 31]  
 
21. The income of a statutory or registered friendly society in so far as such income is not 
derived from a trade or business carried on by such society.  
 
22. The income of a co-operative society registered under the Nigerian Cooperative Societies 
Act, not being income from any trade or business carried on by the Society other than the 
co-operative activities solely carried out for and with its members or from any share or other 
interest possessed by that Society in a trade or business in Nigeria or elsewhere carried on by 
some other person or authority.  
[Cap. N98.] 
 
23. A sum received by way of death gratuities or as consolidated compensation for death or 
injuries.  
 

 
402 
 
24. [Deleted by 2019 No. 1, s. 31]  
 
25.  
 
(1) Dividends paid to a person by a company incorporated in Nigeria:  
 
Provided that- 
 
(a) the equity participation of the person in the company paying the dividends is either 
wholly paid for in foreign currency or by assets brought into Nigeria between 1 January 
1987 and 31 December 1992; and  
(b) the person to whom the dividends are paid owns not less than 10 per cent of the equity 
share capital of the company.  
 
(2) For the purpose of the exemption referred to in sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph, the 
dividend tax-free period shall commence from the year of assessment following the year in 
which the new capital is brought into Nigeria for the real purpose of the trade or business in 
Nigeria of the company paying the dividends and shall continue for five years if the 
company paying the dividends is engaged in agricultural production within Nigeria or 
processing of Nigerian agricultural products produced within Nigeria or production of 
petrochemicals or liquefied natural gas, and in any other case, the tax-free period shall be 
limited to three years.  
 
26. Any compensation for loss of employment.  
 
27. The income of a person, other than a citizen of Nigeria, from employment by any 
government, organisation or agency between which and the Government of the Federation 
or of a State there exists an arrangement for technical assistance, insofar as and to the extent 
only that the employment is solely in pursuit of the technical assistance arrangement.  
[1996 No. 32.] 
 
28. The interest accruing to a person on foreign currency domiciliary accounts.  
 
29. Income earned from outside Nigeria by a temporary guest, lecturer, teacher, nurse, doctor 
and other professional and brought into Nigeria shall be exempt from tax provided that such 
income is deposited in a domiciliary account in an authorised bank in Nigeria.  
[1996 No. 32.] 
 
30. Income from dividend, interest, rent, royalties, fee, commission earned from abroad and 
brought into Nigeria by a Nigerian resident is exempt from tax, provided that such income is 
brought in convertible currency and paid into a domiciliary account in a bank approved by 
the Government.  
 
31. Income earned from abroad by an author, sportsman, playwright, musician, artist and 
brought into Nigeria is exempt from tax provided that such income is brought in foreign 
currencies and paid into a domiciliary account in an authorised bank in Nigeria.  

 
403 
 
 
31A. Income earned from- 
 
(a) Bonds issued by Federal, State and Local Governments and their agencies;  
 
(b) Bonds issued by corporate including supra-nationals; and  
 
(c) Interest earned by holders of the bonds, and short-term securities listed in paragraphs (a) 
and (b)  
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
32. Nothing contained in this Schedule shall exempt any dividend, interest or royalty from a 
deduction to be made under the provisions of section 69 or 70 of this Act.  
 
33. The income of a person from an employment where such person earns gross income of 
National Minimum Wage or less from such employment 
[2020 No. 1, s. 33] 
 
 
 
 
 
FOURTH SCHEDULE 
 
[Section 20 (g).] 
 
Retirement benefits schemes 
 
1. In this Schedule- 
 
“pension fund” means a society, fund, contract or scheme the assets of which are held under 
irrevocable trusts and any scheme established by a law in Nigeria or elsewhere, the main objects 
of which are, in the opinion of the Board, the provision of non-assignable and non-commutable 
retirement pensions or annuities for an individual or his dependants after his death, or for any 
group or class of individuals and their dependants;  
 
“provident fund” means a society, fund or scheme, not being a pension fund, established under 
irrevocable trusts or a law in Nigeria or elsewhere, the objects of which are the provision of 
retirement benefits for an individual or benefits for his dependants, after his death, or for any 
group or class of individuals and their dependants.  
 
2. For the purpose of ascertaining the income of an individual the amount to be deducted in 
respect of a contribution made by him to a pension, provident or other retirement benefits 
fund, society or scheme approved by the Board under the provisions of paragraph (g) of 
section 20 (1) of this Act shall, subject to such conditions as the Board may prescribe, be 
computed in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  

 
404 
 
3. Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the Board, the amount to be deducted for 
the purpose of ascertaining the income of any period of an employer or employee in respect 
of any contribution paid to a pension fund shall be the amount of the contribution paid by 
the employer or employee respectively during that period.  
 
4. Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the Board, the amount to be deducted for 
the purpose of ascertaining the income of any period of an employer or employee in respect 
of any contribution paid to a provident fund shall be the amount of the contribution paid by 
the employer or employee respectively during that period:  
 
Provided that where the aggregate of the contributions made for any period by an employer 
and employee to a provident fund (other than a contribution made with the approval of the 
Board in respect of the past service of the employee with that employer) exceeds 25% of the 
remuneration paid by that employer to that employee for that period, the excess shall be 
excluded from the amount to be deducted in ascertaining the income of either the employer 
or employee by reference to the relevant accounting period of the employer or to the period 
for which the employee‘s income is to be ascertained, as the Board may decide.  
 
5. In the case of an employee, no deduction shall be allowed under this Schedule in respect of 
an excess over ₦5,000 for a year of assessment of the aggregate of the following amounts- 
 
(a) a deduction allowed under paragraph (f) of section 20 of this Act;  
 
(b) a relief given to him for that year in respect of policies of insurance or contracts for 
deferred annuities on his life or the life of his wife;  
 
(c) a deduction which would be otherwise allowed under this Schedule.  
 
6.  
 
(1) In the case of an employee whose employment ceases before he has completed five years’ 
employment with an employer, if the total value of any benefit (other than a sum paid by 
way of a pension or annuity) received by the employee from a pension or provident fund 
exceeds a sum calculated at the rate of ₦300 per annum for the period of the employment, 
the amount of the excess shall be deemed to be income derived by him from his employment 
on the last day thereof.  
 
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, where a person has had employment or successive 
employments with anyone or more Governments established in Nigeria (including in such 
expression the former Government of Nigeria) and his next employment is with a body 
directly incorporated by, or an unincorporated body established by, an Act or Law of any 
legislature in Nigeria, then his employment or successive employments with that 
Government or Governments and his next employment with that body shall be treated as one 
continuing employment.  
 
(3) This paragraph shall, as respects a person who is not a citizen of Nigeria and ceases to be 

 
405 
 
employed by a body corporate or unincorporated as is mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) of this 
paragraph, have effect subject to the following provisions that is- 
 
(a) if the relevant tax authority within the meaning of this Act is satisfied that the 
employment in question ceased with a view to the employment of a citizen of Nigeria in 
the place of that person, the provisions of this paragraph 6 shall not apply in relation to 
that employment; and  
 
(b) the relevant tax authority may if it thinks fit, in a case not falling within the foregoing 
paragraph, determine that those provisions shall apply in relation to that employment 
with the substitution for the reference to the rate aforesaid of a reference to such larger 
rate as may be specified in the determination.  
 
7. Where in respect of a pension or provident fund an employer becomes entitled to any benefit 
whatsoever, the value of that benefit shall for the purpose of this Act be deemed to be 
income of the trade, business, profession or vocation in connection with which the fund was 
approved at the date when the right to the benefit first arose.  
 
8. Where in respect of any pension or provident fund any benefit is paid to an employee before 
the cessation of his employment with an employer, such benefit shall be deemed to be 
income derived by him from his employment on the date on which the benefit is paid.  
 
9. Where a contribution is made by a self-employed individual to a pension, provident, annuity 
or other retirement benefit fund, society or scheme approved by the Board for his eventual 
retirement from gainful employment, the premium shall be exempted from tax provided it 
does not exceed 10% of the self-employed total income.  
[1996 No. 32.] 
 
 
 
 
 
FIFTH SCHEDULE 
 
[Section 36.] 
 
Capital allowances 
 
ARRANGEMENT OF PARAGRAPHS 
 
PARAGRAPH 
 
1. Interpretation.  
 
2. Year of assessment.  
 

 
406 
 
3. Provisions relating to mining expenditure.  
 
4. Owner and meaning of relevant interest.  
 
5. Sale of buildings.  
 
6. Qualifying industrial building expenditure.  
 
7. Initial allowances.  
 
8. Annual allowances.  
 
9. Asset to be in use at the end of basis period.  
 
10. Balancing allowances.  
 
11. Balancing charges.  
 
12. Residue.  
 
13. Meaning of “disposed of”.  
 
14. Value of an asset.  
 
15. Apportionment.  
 
16. Reference to asset to include part of an asset.  
 
17. Extension of meaning of “in use”.  
 
18. Exclusion of certain expenditure.  
 
19. Application to lessors.  
 
20. Asset used or expenditure incurred partly for the purpose of a trade or business.  
 
21. Disposal without change of ownership.  
 
22. Application to professions and vocations.  
 
23. Partnerships.  
 
24. Meaning of “allowances made”.  
 
25. Claims for allowances.  
 

 
407 
 
26. Election in double taxation cases.  
 
27. Manner of making allowances and charges.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIFTH SCHEDULE 
 
[Section 36.] 
 
Capital allowances 
 
1.  Interpretation  
 
For the purpose of this Schedule- 
 
“basis period” has the meaning assigned to it by the following provisions of this definition- 
 
 
(a) in the case of an individual to or on whom an allowance or a charge falls to be made in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule, his basis period for a year of assessment 
shall be the period by reference to the profits of which an assessable income for that year 
falls to be computed, under the provisions of sections 23 to 31 of the Act;  
 
(b) such income means income in respect of the trade or business in which there was used an 
asset in connection with which the allowance or charge falls to be made:  
 
Provided that, in the case of the trade or business- 
 
(i) where two basis periods overlap, the period common to both shall be deemed, 
except for the purpose of making an annual allowance, to fall in the basis period 
ending at the earlier date and in no other basis period;  
 
(ii) where two basis periods coincide, they shall be treated as overlapping, and the basis 
period for the earlier year of assessment shall be treated as ending before the end of 
the basis period for the later year of assessment;  
 
(iii) where there is an interval between the end of the basis period for one year of 
assessment and the basis period for the next year of assessment, then unless the 
second-mentioned year of assessment is the year in which an individual 
permanently ceases to carry on the trade or business, the interval shall be deemed to 
be part of the second basis period, and  
 
(iv) where there is an interval between the end of the basis period for the year of 

 
408 
 
assessment preceding that in which the trade or business permanently ceases to be 
carried on by an individual and the basis period for the year in which it so ceases, 
the interval shall be deemed to form part of the first basis period;  
 
“concession” includes a mining right and a mining lease;  
 
“lease” includes an agreement for a lease where the term to be covered by the lease has begun, 
any tenancy and any agreement for the letting or hiring out of an asset, but does not include a 
mortgage, and the expression “leasehold interest” shall be construed accordingly and- 
 
(a) where, with the consent of the lessor, a lessee of an asset remains in possession thereof 
after the termination of the lease without a new lease being granted to him, that lease 
shall be deemed for the purposes of this Schedule to continue so long as he remains in 
possession as aforesaid; and  
 
(b) where, on the termination of a lease of an asset, a new lease of that asset is granted to the 
lessee, the provisions of this Schedule shall have the effect as if the second lease were a 
continuation of the first lease;  
 
“qualifying expenditure” means, subject to the express provisions of this Schedule, expenditure 
incurred in a basis period which is- 
 
(a) capital expenditure (hereinafter called “qualifying plant expenditure”) incurred on plant, 
machinery or fixtures;  
 
(b) capital expenditure (hereinafter called “qualifying building expenditure”) incurred on the 
construction of buildings, structures or works of a permanent nature, other than 
expenditure which is included in sub-paragraphs (a) or (c) of this definition;  
 
(c) capital expenditure (hereinafter called “qualifying mining expenditure”) incurred in 
connection with, or in preparation for, the working of a mine, oil well or other source of 
mineral deposits of a wasting nature (other than expenditure which is included in sub-
paragraph (a) of this definition)- 
 
(i) on the acquisition of, or of rights in or over, the deposits or on the purchase of 
information relating to the existence and extent of the deposit;  
 
(ii) on searching for or on discovering and testing deposits, or winning access thereto; 
or 
 
 
(iii) on the construction of any work or building which is likely to be of little or no 
value when the source is no longer worked or, where the source is worked under a 
concession, which is likely to become valueless when the concession comes to an 
end to the individual working the source immediately before the concession comes 
to an end; or  
 

 
409 
 
(d) capital expenditure (hereinafter called “qualifying plantation expenditure”) incurred in 
connection with a plantation on the clearing of land for planting and on planting (other 
than replanting), and for the purposes of this definition where- 
 
(i) expenditure is incurred for the purpose of a trade or business by an individual about 
to carry on that trade or business; and 
 
(ii) that expenditure is incurred in respect of an asset owned by that individual,  
 
then, if that expenditure would have fallen to be treated as qualifying expenditure had it 
been incurred by that individual on the first day on which he carries on that trade or 
business, that expenditure shall be deemed to be qualifying expenditure incurred by him 
on that day;  
 
“trade or business” means trade or business or that part of a trade or business the profits of 
which are assessable under this Act;  
 
(e) “capital expenditure” that is, “qualifying research and development expenditure” 
incurred- 
 
(i) on equipment and facilities, patents, licences, secret formulas or process; or  
 
(ii) for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific process, technical 
feasibility or products or process and purchase; or  
 
(iii) on searching for and discovering and testing products or process for future market 
or use and such other similar costs which has brought into existence an asset;  
 
(f) capital expenditure, that is, qualifying agricultural expenditure incurred on plant in use in 
agricultural trades and business within the meaning of section 9 of the Companies 
Income Tax Act;  
[Cap. C21.] 
 
(g) capital expenditure, that is, qualifying public transportation motor vehicle expenditure, 
incurred on a fleet of buses of not less than three used for public transportation;  
 
(h) capital expenditure (hereinafter called “qualifying public transportation” (intercity) new 
mass transit coach of 25 seats and above operated by a recognised private establishment.  
 
2.  Year of assessment  
 
The provisions of this Schedule with respect to the making of allowances and charges shall have 
effect for the year of assessment commencing on the 1st January, 1993 and for each succeeding 
year of assessment and any references in this Schedule to a year of assessment shall not include 
any year commencing prior to the 1st January, 1993.  
 

 
410 
 
3.  Provisions relating to mining expenditure  
 
(1) For the purposes of this Schedule, where- 
 
(a) qualifying mining expenditure has been incurred on the purchase of information relating 
to the existence and extent of the deposits or on searching for or on discovering and 
testing deposits or winning access thereto and the expenditure has been incurred for the 
purposes of a trade or business carried on by the individual incurring the expenditure, and 
such expenditure would have fallen to be treated as such qualifying mining expenditure if 
it had been incurred in a basis period;  
 
(b) the expenditure has not brought into existence an asset; and  
 
(c) the trade or business consists of the working of a mine, oil well or other source of mineral 
deposits of a wasting nature,  
 
then such expenditure shall be deemed to have brought into existence an asset owned by the 
individual incurring the expenditure and in use for the purposes of the trade or business.  
 
(2) For the purpose of this Schedule, an asset in respect of which qualifying mining expenditure 
has been incurred by an individual for the purposes of a trade or business carried on by him 
and which has not been disposed of, shall be deemed not to cease to be used for the purposes 
of that trade or business so long as the individual continues to carry on that trade or business.  
 
(3) So much of a qualifying mining expenditure incurred on the acquisition of rights in or over 
mineral deposits and on the purchase of information relating to the existence and extent of 
the deposits as exceeds the total of the original cost of acquisition of those rights and of the 
cost of searching for, discovering and testing those deposits prior to the purchase of the 
information shall be left out of account for the purpose of this Schedule:  
 
Provided that where the costs were originally incurred by a company which carried on a 
trade or business consisting, as to the whole or part thereof, in the acquisition of the rights or 
information with a view to the assignment or sale thereof, the price paid on the assignment 
or sale shall be substituted for the aforementioned costs.  
 
4.  Owner and meaning of relevant interest  
 
(1) For the purposes of this Schedule, where an asset consists of a building, structure or works 
the owner thereof shall be taken to be the owner of the relevant interest in the building, 
structure or works.  
 
(2) Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, in this Schedule, the expression “the relevant 
interest” means, in relation to an expenditure incurred on the construction of a building, 
structure or works, the interest in that building, structure or works to which the person who 
incurred the expenditure was entitled when he incurred it.  
 

 
411 
 
(3) Where an individual incurs qualifying building expenditure or qualifying mining 
expenditure on the construction of a building, structure or works, he shall be entitled to two 
or more interests therein, and one of those interests is an interest which is reversionary on all 
the others, that interest shall be the relevant interest for the purposes of this Schedule.  
 
5.  Sale of buildings  
 
(1) Where capital expenditure has been incurred on the construction of a building, structure or 
works and thereafter the relevant interest therein is sold, the individual who buys that 
interest shall be deemed, for all the purposes of this Schedule except the granting of initial 
allowances, to have incurred, on the date when the purchase price became payable, capital 
expenditure on the construction thereof equal to the price paid by him for the interest or to 
the original costs of construction whichever is the less:  
 
Provided that where the relevant interest is sold- 
 
(a) before the building, structure or works has been used, the foregoing provisions of this 
paragraph shall have effect with respect to the sale with the omission of the words 
“except the granting of initial allowances” and the original cost of construction shall be 
taken to be the amount of the purchase price on such sale;  
 
(b) more than once before the building, structure or works is used, the provisions of 
paragraph (1) of this proviso shall have effect only in relation to the last of those sales.  
 
6. Qualifying industrial building expenditure  
 
For the purposes of this Schedule- 
 
(a) where but for this paragraph an individual is entitled to an annual allowance in respect of 
qualifying building expenditure in respect of an asset in use, for the purposes of a trade or 
business carried on by him, at the end of his basis period for any year of assessment 
commencing on or after the 1st January, 1993, then, if that asset is an industrial building 
or structure in use as such at the end of his basis period for any such year then, in lieu of 
such allowance and qualifying building expenditure, the qualifying expenditure in respect 
of that asset shall be taken to mean a qualifying industrial building expenditure for any 
allowance to be made to that individual, in respect of that qualifying expenditure, for that 
year; and  
 
(b) “industrial building or structure” means a building or structure in regular use- 
 
(i) as a mill, factory, mechanical workshop, or other similar building, or as a structure 
used in connection with any such buildings; 
 
(ii) as a dock, port, wharf, pier, jetty or other similar building structure; 
 
(iii) for the operation of a railway for public use or of a water or electricity undertaking 

 
412 
 
for the supply of water or electricity for public consumption; and 
 
(iv) for the running of a plantation or for the working of a mine or other source of 
mineral deposits of a wasting nature. 
 
7.  Initial allowances  
 
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Schedule, where in his basis period for a year of assessment 
the owner of an asset has incurred in respect thereof qualifying expenditure wholly and 
exclusively for the purposes of a trade or business carried on by him, there shall be made to 
that individual for the year of assessment in his basis period for which that asset was first 
used for the purposes of that trade or business an allowance (in this Schedule called “an 
initial allowance”) at the appropriate rate per centum, set forth in the Table I to this 
Schedule, of the expenditure.  
[Table I.] 
 
(2) Where capital expenditure is incurred on the purchase of an asset and either the purchaser is 
a person over whom the seller has control, or some other person has control over both the 
purchaser and the seller, then, the amount of an initial allowance to be made in respect of the 
expenditure shall be such an amount as the relevant tax authority may determine to be just 
and reasonable having regard to all circumstances relating to the asset and control:  
 
Provided that the amount shall not exceed the amount of the initial allowance which would 
have been allowable apart from the provisions of this sub-paragraph.  
 
8.  Annual allowance  
 
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Schedule, where in his basis period for a year of assessment 
the owner of an asset has incurred in respect thereof qualifying expenditure wholly, 
exclusively, necessarily and reasonably for the purposes of a trade or business carried on by 
him, whether or not an initial allowance may be made to him in respect of that qualifying 
expenditure, there shall be made to that individual for each year of assessment in his basis 
period for which that asset was used for the purposes of that trade or business an allowance 
(hereinafter called “an annual allowance”) at the rate specified in respect thereof in Table II 
of this Schedule of the expenditure after the deduction of initial allowance where applicable:  
[Table II.] 
 
Provided that an amount of ₦10 shall be retained in the accounts for tax purposes until the 
asset is disposed of.  
 
(2) In the case of an asset in respect of which an allowance has been granted before the 
commencement of this sub-paragraph, an allowance shall be made in respect of the asset for 
the number of years of assessment which, if added to the number of years of assessment for 
which allowance has already been made, equals the number of years of assessment for 
which allowance is to be made under the provision of sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph:  
 

 
413 
 
Provided that if an allowance has been made for a number of years which is equal to or more 
than the number of years specified under sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph, a single 
allowance shall be made for an amount which is ₦10 less than the residue of the qualifying 
expenditure for the year of assessment in which this sub-paragraph takes effect.  
 
9.  Asset to be in use at end of basis period  
 
An initial allowance or an annual allowance in respect of qualifying expenditure incurred in 
respect of an asset shall only be made to an individual for a year of assessment if at the end of his 
basis period for that year he was the owner of that asset and it was in use for the purposes of a 
trade or business carried on by him.  
 
10. Balancing allowances  
 
Subject to the provisions of this Schedule, where in his basis period for a year of assessment the 
owner of an asset, who has incurred in respect thereof qualifying expenditure wholly and 
exclusively for the purposes of a trade or business carried on by him, disposes of that asset, an 
allowance (hereinafter called “a balancing allowance”) shall be made to that individual for that 
year of the excess of the residue of that expenditure, at the date the asset is disposed of, over the 
value of that asset at that date:  
 
Provided that a balancing allowance shall only be made in respect of the asset if immediately 
prior to its disposal it was in use by the owner in the trade or business for the purposes of which 
the qualifying expenditure was incurred.  
 
11. Balancing charges  
Subject to the provisions of this Schedule, where in his basis period for a year of assessment the 
owner of an asset, who has incurred in respect thereof qualifying expenditure wholly and 
exclusively for the purposes of a trade or business carried on by him, disposes of that asset, a 
charge (hereinafter called “a balancing charge”) shall be made on that individual for that year of 
the excess of the value of that asset, at the date of its disposal, over the residue of that 
expenditure at the date:  
 
Provided that a balancing charge shall only be made in respect of the asset if immediately prior 
to its disposal it was in use by the owner in the trade or business for the purposes of which the 
qualifying expenditure was incurred and shall not exceed the total of any allowances made under 
the provisions of this Schedule in respect of the asset and, in cases falling under paragraph 19 of 
this Schedule, of any allowance or deduction made under any income tax law in Nigeria in 
respect of the capital cost of the asset.  
 
12. Residue  
 
(1) The residue of qualifying expenditure, in respect of an asset, at any date, shall be taken to be 
the total qualifying expenditure incurred on or before that date, by the owner thereof at that 
date, in respect of that asset, less the total of an initial or annual allowance made to the 
owner, in respect of that asset, before that date.  

 
414 
 
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, an initial allowance or annual allowance shall be deemed 
to be made at the end of the basis period for the year of assessment for which any such 
allowance is made.  
 
13. Meaning of “disposed of”  
 
Subject to an express provision to the contrary, for the purpose of this Schedule-  
 
(a) a building, structure or works of a permanent nature is disposed of if- 
 
(i) relevant interest therein is sold; or 
 
(ii) that interest, being an interest depending on the duration of a concession comes to 
an end on the coming to an end of that concession; or 
 
(iii) that interest, being a leasehold interest, comes to an end otherwise than on the 
individual entitled thereto acquiring the interest which is reversionary thereon; or 
 
(iv) the building, structure or works of a permanent nature is demolished or destroyed or 
without being demolished or destroyed, ceases altogether to be used for the 
purposes of a trade or business carried on by the owner thereof;  
 
(b) plant, machinery or fixture is disposed of if it is sold, discarded or ceases altogether to be 
used for the purposes of a trade or business carried on by the owner thereof;  
 
(c) an asset in respect of which qualifying mining expenditure is incurred is disposed of if it 
is sold or ceases to be used for the purposes of the trade or business of the individual 
incurring the expenditure either on that individual ceasing to carry on the trade or 
business or on that individual receiving insurance or compensation moneys, therefor.  
 
14. Value of an asset  
 
(1) The value of an asset at the date of its disposal shall be the net proceeds of the sale thereof or 
of the relevant interest therein, or if it was disposed of without being sold, the amount 
which, in the opinion of the relevant tax authority, the asset or the relevant interest therein, 
as the case may be, would have fetched if sold in the open market at that date, less the 
amount of any expenses which the owner might reasonably be expected to incur if the asset 
were so sold.  
 
(2) For the purpose of this paragraph, if an asset is disposed of in such circumstances that 
insurance or compensation moneys are received by the owner thereof, the asset or the 
relevant interest therein, as the case may be, shall be treated as having been sold and as 
though the net proceeds of the insurance or compensation moneys were the net proceeds of 
the sale thereof.  
 
(3) So much of sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph as relates to the circumstances for 

 
415 
 
determining the value of an asset by reference to the disposal of the asset other than by way 
of sale shall have effect- 
 
(a) in relation to an asset or the relevant interest therein disposed of, not being by way of 
bargain made at arm’s length; or  
 
(b) where the sale is between persons who are related to each other or between persons both 
of whom are controlled by some other person or one of whom has control over the other.  
 
15. Apportionment  
 
(1) A reference in this Schedule to the disposal, sale or purchase of an asset includes a reference 
to the disposal, sale or purchase of that asset, as the case may be, together with any other 
asset, whether or not qualifying expenditure has been incurred on the last mentioned asset, 
and, where an asset is disposed of, sold, or purchased together with another asset, so much 
of the value of the assets as, on a just apportionment, is properly attributable to the first 
mentioned asset shall, for the purposes of this Schedule, be deemed to be the value of or the 
price paid for that asset, as the case may be.  
 
(2) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph, all the assets which are purchased 
or disposed of in pursuance of one bargain shall be deemed to be purchased or disposed of 
together, notwithstanding that separate prices are or purport to be agreed for each of those 
assets or that there are or purport to be separate purchases or disposals of those assets.  
 
(3) The provisions of sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph shall apply, with any necessary 
modifications, to the sale or purchase of the relevant interest in an asset together with any 
other asset or relevant interest in any other asset.  
 
16. Reference to asset to include part of an asset  
 
A reference in this Schedule to an asset shall be construed whenever necessary as including a 
reference to a part of an asset (including an undivided part of that asset in the case of joint 
interest therein) and when so construed any necessary apportionment shall be made as may, in 
the opinion of the relevant tax authority, be just and reasonable.  
 
17. Extension of meaning of “in use”  
 
(1) For the purposes of this Schedule, an asset shall be deemed to be in use during a period of 
temporary disuse,  
 
(2) For the purposes of paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of this Schedule- 
 
(a) an asset in respect of which qualifying expenditure has been incurred by the owner 
thereof for the purposes of a trade or business carried on by him shall be deemed to be in 
use, for the purposes of that trade or business, between the dates hereinafter mentioned 
where the relevant tax authority is of the opinion that the first use to which the asset will 

 
416 
 
be put by the individual incurring the expenditure will be for the purposes of that trade or 
business;  
 
(b) those dates shall be taken to be the dates on which the expenditure was incurred and the 
date on which the asset is in fact first put to use:  
 
Provided that where an allowance has been given in consequence of this subparagraph 
and the first use to which the asset is put is not for the purposes of the trade or business, 
all such additional assessments shall be made as may be necessary to counteract the 
benefit obtained from the giving of the allowance.  
 
18. Exclusion of certain expenditure  
 
Where an individual has incurred expenditure which is allowed to be deducted, in computing the 
gains or profits of his trade or business under section 20 of this Act, the expenditure shall not be 
treated as qualifying expenditure.  
 
19. Application to lessor  
 
(1) Where the owner of an asset other than a building- 
 
(a) has incurred capital expenditure in respect thereof for the purposes of leasing that asset 
for use wholly and exclusively for the purposes of a trade or business carried on or about 
to be carried on by a person;  
 
(b) leases the asset to such person; and  
 
(c) during the whole or part of the term of the lease, the asset is used wholly and exclusively 
by such person in such trade or business,  
 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply, with such necessary modifications as the relevant 
tax authority may direct, as though such expenditure were incurred wholly and exclusively 
for the purposes of a trade or business carried on by the owner from the date when such 
expenditure was incurred and as though the owner were using the asset for the purposes of 
such last mentioned trade or business in the way in which and for the period or periods 
during which the asset is in fact used in the first-mentioned trade or business.  
 
(2) The provisions of sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph shall apply in the case of a building 
leased by its owner to any other person as though such leasing were a trade or business 
carried on by the owner and, if he incurred the capital expenditure in respect of that building 
after the 31st day of March, 1955, irrespective of the use thereof intended by the owner at the 
time he incurred such expenditure.  
 
(3) For the purposes of this paragraph, in relation to the trade or business which an owner is to 
be treated as carrying on, his basis period for any year of assessment shall be taken to be the 
year immediately preceding that year of assessment.  

 
417 
 
20. Asset used or expenditure incurred partly for the purposes of a trade or business  
 
(1) The following provisions of this paragraph shall apply where either or both of the following 
conditions apply with respect to an asset 
 
(a) the owner of the asset has incurred in respect thereof qualifying expenditure partly for the 
purpose of a trade or business carried on by him and partly for other purposes;  
 
(b) the asset in respect of which qualifying expenditure has been incurred by the owner 
thereof is used partly for the purposes of a trade or business carried on by the owner and 
partly for other purposes.  
 
(2) An allowance and a charge which would be made if both expenditures were incurred wholly 
and exclusively for the purposes of the trade or business and the asset was used wholly and 
exclusively for the purposes of the trade or business, shall be computed in accordance with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
(3) So much of the allowance and charge computed in accordance with the provisions of sub-
paragraph (2) of this paragraph, shall be made as in the opinion of the relevant tax authority 
is just and reasonable having regard to all the circumstances and to the provisions of this 
Schedule.  
 
21. Disposal without change of ownership  
 
Where an asset in respect of which qualifying expenditure has been incurred by its owner has 
been disposed of in such circumstances that the owner remains the owner thereof, then for the 
purposes of determining whether and, if so, in what amount, an annual or balancing allowance or 
balancing charge shall be made to or on the owner in respect of his use of that asset after the date 
of such disposal, qualifying expenditure incurred by the owner in respect of the asset prior to the 
date of the disposal shall be left out of account:  
 
Provided that the owner shall be deemed to have bought the asset immediately after the disposal 
for a price equal to the residue of the qualifying expenditure at the date of the disposal, increased 
by the amount of any balancing charge or decreased by the amount of any balancing allowance 
made as a result of the disposal.  
 
22. Application to professions and vocations  
 
In relation to qualifying plant expenditure, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply as if 
references to a profession or vocation, the profits of which are assessable under this Act, and in 
relation to qualifying building expenditure, those provisions shall apply as if references to a 
profession, the profits of which are assessable under this Act.  
 
23. Partnerships  
 
(1) The provisions of this paragraph shall have effect for the purposes of this Schedule, in 

 
418 
 
relation to a trade or business and the person or persons hereinafter mentioned carrying on 
the trade or business, throughout the period (hereinafter called “the relevant period”) being- 
 
(a) a period during which the trade or business is carried on by persons in partnership and at 
least one of those persons, engaged in carrying on the trade or business as a partner in a 
partnership at any time, is so engaged immediately after that time, whether as a partner in 
the same partnership or as a partner in a different partnership carrying on the trade or 
business; or  
(b) the aggregate of any of the following periods which are successive- 
 
(i) a period, ending immediately prior to a person becoming a partner in a partnership 
carrying on the trade or business, during which the person was carrying on the trade 
or business on his own account;  
 
(ii) a period ascertained under provision (a) of this sub-paragraph;  
 
(iii) a period during which a person is carrying on the trade or business on his account, 
where that person was a partner in a partnership carrying on the trade or business 
immediately before that period.  
 
(2) The trade or business shall throughout the relevant period be deemed to be carried on by one 
and the same person (hereinafter called “the deemed person”) and an allowance or a charge 
which would then fall to be made to or on the deemed person, under the provisions of this 
Schedule if the deemed person were an individual, shall be computed as though the deemed 
person had done all things which were done for the purposes of the trade or business by the 
person or persons actually carrying on that trade or business during the relevant period.  
 
(3) For the purpose of this paragraph, a basis period for a year of assessment shall be such 
period as the relevant tax authority shall determine by reference to the provisions of the 
definition of “basis period” in paragraph 2 of this Schedule and to the provisions of 
subparagraph (2) of this paragraph:  
 
Provided that, where at any time during the relevant period a person ceases to be engaged in 
carrying on the trade or business as a partner in a partnership or commences to be so 
engaged, the deemed person shall, for the purpose of determining basis periods under the 
provisions of this sub-paragraph and for that purpose only, be treated as having ceased to 
carry on the trade or business at that time and as having recommenced to carry on that trade 
or business immediately thereafter.  
 
(4) The amount of the computed allowance or charge in respect of an asset shall be allocated to 
the person, or apportioned amongst the persons, actually carrying on the trade or business, in 
the same manner as a capital loss, in the case of an allowance, or a capital gain, in the case 
of a charge, in respect of that asset would fall on or accrue to that person or those persons, if 
that loss or gain arose in the course of carrying on the trade or business and as a result of an 
event occurring- 
 

 
419 
 
(a) in the case of an initial or annual allowance, at the end of the basis period by reference to 
which the allowance has been computed; and  
 
(b) in the case of a balancing allowance or charge, at the date of the disposal of the asset.  
 
(5) An amount so allocated to or apportioned to an individual in respect of a computed 
allowance or charge shall be treated as an allowance or charge for the purposes of the 
provisions of this Schedule relating to deductions from and additions to the remainder of 
assessable income and shall be made to or on him for the year of assessment for which the 
amount of the allowance or charge has been so computed:  
 
Provided that, where an allowance or a charge falls to be recomputed, as a result of the 
application of the proviso to sub-paragraph (3) of this paragraph, all such additional 
assessments or repayments of tax shall be made as may be necessary to give effect to the 
provisions of this paragraph.  
 
(6) For the purposes of the provisions of this paragraph, an asset is not disposed of within the 
meaning of paragraph 13 of this Schedule if the asset is used for the purpose of the trade or 
business during the relevant period and at least one of the persons actually engaged in 
carrying on the trade or business has an interest in the asset, or in the relevant interest 
therein, during the relevant period.  
 
(7) In the application of this paragraph with any of the provisions of the other paragraphs of this 
Schedule, those provisions shall be applied with any modifications which the relevant tax 
authority may consider necessary in order to give effect to the principles and provisions of 
this paragraph, and the relevant tax authority may, from time to time, prescribe rules 
embodying those modifications.  
 
24. Meaning of “allowances made”  
 
A reference in this Schedule to an allowance made includes a reference to an allowance which 
would be made but for an insufficiency of assessable income against which to make it.  
 
25. Claims for allowances  
 
No allowance shall be made to an individual for a year of assessment under the provisions of this 
Schedule unless claimed by him for that year or where the relevant tax authority is of the opinion 
that it would be reasonable and just so to do.  
 
26. Election in double taxation cases  
 
(1) Where an individual makes a claim to an initial or annual allowance under this Schedule in 
connection with a trade or business, if the tax in respect of the profits of the trade or business 
is the subject of an arrangement, having effect by virtue of section 38 of this Act, between 
Nigeria and any other territory, for relief from double taxation, he may elect, at the time of 
making the claim or within such reasonable time thereafter as the relevant tax authority may 

 
420 
 
allow, that allowance shall be calculated at a lesser rate than that provided for in paragraph 7 
or 8 of this Schedule and in making the election he shall specify the amount of the lesser 
rate.  
 
(2) Where an election has been made under this paragraph, the amount of the lesser rate shall be 
taken to be the appropriate rate in relation to that allowance for all the purposes of this 
Schedule.  
 
27. Manner of making allowances and charges  
 
(1) The amount of a charge to be made on an individual, under the provisions of this Schedule 
shall be made on him by making an addition to his assessable income for the year of 
assessment for which the charge falls to be made under the provisions of this Schedule:  
 
Provided that where the charge falls to be made on an individual for a year of assessment, 
whenever necessary by reason of the assessment on that individual having become final and 
conclusive for that year or for other sufficient reason, the relevant tax authority may make an 
additional assessment on the individual in respect of the amount of the charge.  
 
(2) Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, the amount of an allowance to be made to an 
individual under the provisions of this Schedule shall be made to him by making a deduction 
from the remainder of his assessable income for the year of assessment for which the 
allowance falls to be made under the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
(3) For the purposes of this paragraph the remainder of the assessable income of an individual 
for a year of assessment shall be ascertained by first giving full effect to the provisions of 
sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph and to the provisions of section 36 of this Act relating to 
the deduction of the amount of a loss.  
 
(4) Where full effect cannot be given to a deduction to be made under sub-paragraph (2) of this 
paragraph for a year of assessment owing to there being no remainder of assessable income 
for that year, or owing to the remainder for that year being less than the deduction, the 
deduction or part of the deduction to which effect has not been given, as the case may be, 
shall, for the purpose of ascertaining total income (of the individual entitled to the 
deduction) under section 36 of this Act for the following year, be deemed to be a deduction 
for that year, in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph (2) of this paragraph, and 
so on for succeeding years.  
 
(5) Where an individual is entitled to a deduction under sub-paragraph (4) of this paragraph, or 
to a deduction in respect of a balancing allowance, in respect of an asset used in a trade or 
business carried on by him, for a year of assessment in which that trade or business 
permanently ceases to be carried on by him and full effect cannot be given to the deduction 
for that year owing- 
 
(1) to there being no remainder of assessable income for that year; or  
 

 
421 
 
(2) to the remainder of his assessable income for that year being less than the deduction,  
 
that deduction or the part to which effect has not been given, as the case may be, may, on a 
claim being made by the individual, be given by way of a deduction from the remainder of 
his assessable income for the preceding year of assessment, and so on for other preceding 
years, so, however, that no such deduction shall be given by virtue of this subparagraph for 
any year earlier than the fifth year before the first-mentioned year of assessment:  
 
Provided that where a relief is given under this sub-paragraph in respect of the deduction, 
the provisions of sub-paragraph (4) of this paragraph shall cease to have effect in respect of 
that deduction for any year of assessment subsequent to the year of assessment in which 
such trade or business ceases.  
 
(6) Where a deduction falls to be given under the provisions of sub-paragraph (5) of this 
paragraph for any preceding year of assessment, whenever necessary, by reason of any 
assessment for a year having become final and conclusive, or for other sufficient reason, the 
relevant tax authority may, with respect to the year, make such repayment or set-off of the 
tax, or of any part of such tax, paid or charged for the year, as may be appropriate, in lieu of 
making the deduction.  
 
(7) In giving effect to the provisions of sub-paragraph (2) of this paragraph, the amount of 
capital allowance to be deducted from assessable profits in any year of assessment shall not 
exceed 66 2/3 % of such assessable profits of an individual, but any individual in the agro-
allied industry or which is engaged in the trade or business of manufacturing shall not be 
affected by the restriction under this sub-paragraph.  
 
(8) For the purposes of this paragraph- 
 
“an individual in the agro-allied industry” is a person who- 
 
(1) establishes or manages a plantation for the production of rubber, oil palm, cocoa, 
coffee, tea and similar crops;  
 
(2) cultivates or produces cereal crops, tubers, fruits of all kind, cotton, beans, 
groundnuts, sheanuts, beniseed, vegetables, pineapples, bananas and plantains;  
 
(3) establishes or manages animal husbandry, that is poultry, piggery, cattle rearing and 
the like and fish farming.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
422 
 
TABLES 
 
TABLE I 
 
[Paragraph 7.] 
 
Initial allowance 
 
Rate per centum  
Qualifying Expenditure in respect of- 
 
Qualifying Building Expenditure………………………………………………………….5  
 
Qualifying Industrial Building Expenditure……………………………………………..15  
 
Qualifying Mining Expenditure………………………………………………………….20  
 
Qualifying Plant Expenditure (excluding Furniture and Fittings)……………………….20  
 
Plant Expenditure (Manufacturing, Construction and Agricultural 
Production)……………………………………………………………………………….25  
 
Qualifying Furniture and Fittings Expenditure…………………………………………..15  
 
Qualifying Motor Vehicle Expenditure………………………………………………….25  
 
Qualifying Motor Vehicle (Public Transportation Expenditure with at least 3 buses)….30  
 
Qualifying Plantation Equipment Expenditure…………………………………………..20  
 
Qualifying Housing Estate Expenditure…………………………………………………20  
 
Qualifying Ranching and Plantation Expenditure……………………………………….30  
 
Qualifying Research and Development Expenditure……………………………………25  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
423 
 
TABLE II 
 
[Paragraph 8.] 
 
Annual allowance 
 
Rate per centum  
Qualifying Expenditure in respect of 
 
Qualifying Building Expenditure……………………………………………………….10  
 
Qualifying Industrial Building Expenditure…………………………………………….10  
 
Qualifying Mining Expenditure…………………………………………………………10  
 
Qualifying Plant Expenditure (excluding furniture and fittings)………………………..10  
 
Qualifying Furniture and Fittings Expenditure………………………………………….10  
 
Qualifying Research and Development Expenditure……………………………….....12 ½  
 
Qualifying Housing Estate Expenditure…………………………………………………10  
 
Qualifying Ranching and Plantation Expenditure……………………………………….15  
 
Qualifying Motor Vehicle Expenditure………………………………………………….20  
 
Qualifying Plantation Equipment Expenditure………………………………………33 1/3  
 
 
 
 
SIXTH SCHEDULE 
[Section 37.] 
 
INCOME TAX TABLE 
[2011 No. 20.] 
 
(1) A consolidated relief allowance shall be granted on income at a flat rate of ₦200,000 plus 20 
per cent of gross income.  
 
(2) Tax Exempt: The following deductions are tax exempt- 
 
(a) National Housing Fund Contribution  
 
(b) National Health Insurance Scheme  

 
424 
 
(c) Life Assurance Premium  
 
(d) National Pension Scheme  
 
(e) Gratuities  
 
(3) After the relief allowance and exemptions had been  granted in  accordance with paragraphs 
1 and 2 of this Schedule, the balance of income shall be taxed as specified in the following 
tax table:  
 
Tax Income Rates 
 
Graduated Tax rates with consolidated allowance of ₦200,000 + 20 per cent of Gross Income, 
subject to a minimum tax of 1 per cent of Gross Income whichever is higher.  
 
1. First ₦300,000 @ 7 per cent  
 
2. Next ₦300,000 @ 11 per cent  
 
3. Next ₦500,000 @ 15 per cent  
 
4. Next ₦500,000 @ 19 per cent  
 
5. Next ₦1,600,000 @ 21 per cent  
 
6. Above ₦3, 200,000 @ 24 per cent  
 
 
 
 
 
SEVENTH SCHEDULE 
 
[Section 38 (5).] 
 
Double taxation arrangements 
 
The double taxation arrangements referred to in section 38 (5) of this Act are contained in the 
Double Taxation Relief between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland Order 1988 published as a subsidiary legislation under the 
Companies Income Tax Act and any other such arrangements between the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria and any other country published as subsidiary legislation.  
 
The Order was made under powers conferred by the Companies Income Tax Act, this Act and 
the Petroleum Profits Tax Act.  
[Cap. C21. Cap. P13] 

 
425 
 
EIGHTH SCHEDULE 
 
[Section 53 (2).] 
 
Warrant and authority to enter premises 
 
To.......................................................................................................................................................  
 
Name of taxpayer............................................................................................................................... 
 
Incorporation or Identification No………………………………………………………………….  
 
Place of business taxpayer................................................................................................................. 
 
Board of Internal Revenue in exercise of the powers vested in it by section 53 of the Personal 
Income Tax Act hereby authorises you to enter the premises, office, place of management or 
residence of the above-named taxpayer, office of the agent, factory or representative of the 
taxpayer suspected by the Board of fraud, wilful default, etc., in connection with the tax imposed 
under the aforesaid Act; and whose premises, office, place of management or residence of his 
principal officer, office of the agent, factor or representative is at…………………………. and 
for the carrying out of your assignment, the said Board further authorises that you with the aid (if 
necessary) of your assistants and calling to your assistance a police officer, which assistance the 
police officer is by law required to give, search and remove (if necessary) such records, books 
and documents of the named taxpayer wherever they may be found either in possession of any 
employee of the taxpayer or any other person on his behalf.  
 
And for the purpose of your entry into the aforementioned premises you are hereby authorised if 
necessary, with such assistance as aforesaid, to break open any building or place in the daytime.  
 
 
Signed for and on behalf of the Board of Internal Revenue of .........................................................  
 
State Tax Authority at……………………….this………day of…………………………20……...  
 
Signature…………………………………………………………………………………………...  
Chairman/Director 
Board of Internal Revenue 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
